 
 Subcontract No.  
 
QRI -SC-23-101 Prime Contract No.  
 
HHHHHH -HH-H-HHHH (TO 2313)  Type of Agreement  
 
IDIQ  
DPAS Rating – DOA4   
 
Quantum Research International, Inc.  
991 Discovery Drive  
Huntsville, AL  35806  
Attn:  Devin Crowe  
Email:  rcrowe @quantum -intl.com  
Phone:  256 -971-1800, ext. 1 261 
 
And  
 
Auburn University  
Attn: Kelley Terry  
Email:  terrykl@auburn.edu  
Phone:   334 -844-2299  
 
Witness That : 
This Agreement constitutes the entire understanding and agreement between the parties with respect to the subject 
matter hereof and supersedes all prior understandings and agreements.  It cannot be changed unless such changes 
are in writing and duly executed by the authorized representa tive of both parties as shown above.  This agreement is 
governed by t he laws of the State of Alabama . 
 
By accepting and signing below, the Subcontractor certifies that neither the Subcontractor, or its principals, is 
debarred, suspended, or proposed for de barment by the Federal Government, and  
 
certifies that to the best of its knowledge and belief that no Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be 
paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an office or employee of any agency, a  Member of 
Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee or a Member of Congress on its behalf in 
connection with the awarding of this modification.  
 
By the signing below by duly authorized representatives, the parties have executed this agr eement as of 
the last signature date.  
 
For Quantum Research International, Inc. : For: Auburn Univers ity 
Signature:   Signature:   
Name:  Jill Ranes  Name:   
Title:  Director of Contracts  Title:   
Date:   Date:   
 
 
  
  
Section A. Subcontract  
The maximum value of this Subcontract will be the collective total of all Task Orders (TO’s) awarded under 
this Subcontract.  
   
 Section B. Supplies or Services and Prices  
CONTRACT TYPE  
a. This is an Indefinite Delivery/Indefinite Quantity (IDIQ) type contract with multiple pricing 
arrangements available for use in pricing individual TO’s .  Available arrangements shall include Cost-
Plus-Fixed -Fee (CPFF) , Time and Material (T&M)  or Firm Fixed  Price ( FFP).  
b. The Subcontractor, as a n independent contractor and not as  an agent or employee of Quantum Research 
International, Inc. , shall  furnish all necessary labor, services (non -personal), equipment, and /or material 
(except as spec ified to be fu rnished by Quantum  or the Government) required to accomplish the work 
efforts as specifically set forth in each issued TO.  All TOs shall be within the general scope of the basic 
subcontract Performance Work Statement (See Section C below).  
c. All Supplies  or Services will be awarded by individual TO’s.  All funds will be obligated by individual 
TO’s issued under this basic Subcontract.  
   
 Section C. Statement of Work  
The Subcontractor, as an independent contractor, and not as an agent or employee of Quantum  or the 
government , shall furnish all necessary labor, services, and material (except those labor, services, and 
material that will be furnished by Quantum  or the go vernment and so specified in each individual TO) 
required to accomplish the specific requirements of each individual TO.  Each TO shall  be within this 
Sectio n C PWS to this Subcontract.  
In the below PWS, the term “contractor” shall mean “subcontractor ,” and the term” contract” shall mean 
“subcontract .” 
 
C.1.0 DESCRIPTION OF EFFORT : This non -personal service PWS establishes  requirements for  
Contractor -provided services to the Program Executive Office (PEO) Missiles and Space (MS). The scope 
of this PWS consists of requirements for technical services such as Systems Engineering; Test and 
Evaluation (T&E); Industrial Engineering; Command, Cont rol, Communication; Cybersecurity and 
Electro - Magnetic Activities (CEMA), technical releases , and integration of complex Foreign Military 
Sales (FMS) cases, and associated specialized support related to operations, financial management, 
contracting, strategic analysis, and long-range planning for complex technical requirements for PEO MS 
managed w eapon systems and foreign partners to include cooperative programs throughout the acquisition 
lifecycle. The effort will require Contractors to provide qualified personnel, equipment, supplies, 
facilities, transportation, tools, materials, supervision, and  other items and non -personal services necessary 
to perform the services as defined in this PWS. IT and wireless devices (i.e. , laptops, docking stations, 
mobile phones, etc.) will be provided to the Contractor for on -site and telework - eligible performanc e of 
this task. This effort will be funded through multiple funding types – Research, Development, Test , and 
Evaluation (RDT&E), Operations and Maintenance (O&M), Procurement, and Security 
Assistance/Security Cooperation funds. See Part 3 below for the spe cific tasks of this PWS.  
 
Program Executive Office Background : The U.S. Army Program Executive Office Missiles and Space 
develops, fields, and sustains defensive and offensive integrated fire capabilities in support of the joint all -
domain battlespace. PEO  MS is the U.S. Army acquisition agency for the procurement of air and missile 
defense systems; precision fires rockets and missiles; close -combat missiles; counter unmanned aircraft 
systems; counter rocket, artillery , and mortar systems; and air -to-ground  aviation munitions. PEO MS is 
on the cutting edge of the Army’s long -range precision fires, air and missile defense, hypersonic, directed 
energy, counter -unmanned aerial systems, integrated fires mission command, and aviation and ground 
missiles moderniza tion initiatives. We are an indispensable acquisition leader, enabling U.S. warfighters, 
our allies and partners to defeat the threats of today and tomorrow. The organization, workforce, and 
innovative acquisition processes provide a rapid and iterative ap proach to integrated fires capability 
development with the objective to reduce cost and acquisition risks, address technological obsolescence, 
and eliminate duplication of effort. PEO Missiles and Space is aligned to increase the speed of deliver, 
enable d esign tradeoffs in the requirements process, expand the role of Warfighters throughout the 
acquisitions process, and  leverage rapid acquisition authorities and non -traditional suppliers. This 
approach allows for rapid response to changes in the operations environment, provides integrated multi -
domain solutions, and complicates our competitors’ abilities to offset our systems. Six project offices 
manage more than 30 programs of record which leverage state -of-the-art technology to meet full -spectrum 
operation s requirements:  
 
• Integrated Fires Rapid Capabilities Office (IF/RCO)  
• Integrated Fires Mission Command (IFMC)  
• Short and Intermediate Effectors for Layered Defense (SHIELD)   
 • Search, Track, Acquire, Radiate, Eliminate (STARE)  
• Strategic and Operationa l Rockets and Missiles (STORM)  
• Tactical Aviation and Ground Munitions (TAGM)  
 
PEO Headquarters Functions include  
• Chief Information Officer  
• Business Management  
• International  
• Logistics  
• Engineering  
• Management Support  
• Strategic Initiatives  
• Facilities  
 
C.2.0 SPECIFIC TASK ORDER (TO) REQUIREMENTS  
 
C.2.1 Engineering and Technical Support  
 
C.2.1.1  General Technical Support : The Contractor shall identify and evaluate innovative technologies 
to increase functionality and performance of PEO MS weapo ns systems to meet operational needs or user 
requirements. The contractor shall develop Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation (RDT&E) plans 
for identifying new technologies, capabilities, and concepts that address emerging requirements as well as 
urgent operational needs. Each RDT&E plan shall provide a roadmap that addresses technology maturity 
and recommended further analysis to guide feasibility of the Research and Development (R&D) effort 
integration into PEO MS products. Furthermore, the Contract or shall prioritize PEO MS Science & 
Technology (S&T) needs to align with PEO MS program roadmaps and Long -range Investment 
Requirements Analysis (LIRA), Army S&T funding, and R&D capabilities within Combat Capabilities 
Development Command (DEVCOM). The Co ntractor shall identify and protect RDT&E Critical Program 
Information (CPI) IAW DoDI 5200.39.  
 
C.2.1.2  The Contractor shall identify and evaluate innovative technologies to increase functionality and 
performance of PEO MS weapons systems to meet operational needs or user requirements. The contractor 
shall develop Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation (RDT&E) plans for identifying new 
technologies, capabilities, and concepts that address emerging requirements as well as urgent operational 
needs. Each RDT&E plan shall provide a roadmap that addresses technology maturity and recommended 
further analysis t o guide feasibility of the Research and Development (R&D) effort integration into PEO 
MS products. Furthermore, the Contractor shall prioritize PEO MS Science & Technology (S&T) needs to 
align with PEO MS program roadmaps and Long -range Investment Requirem ents Analysis (LIRA), Army 
S&T funding, and R&D capabilities within Combat Capabilities Development Command (DEVCOM). 
The Contractor shall identify and protect RDT&E Critical Program Information (CPI) IAW DoDI 
5200.39.  
 
C.2.1.3 The Contractor shall posses s an in -depth technical understanding of all phases of the acquisition 
life-cycle. The contractor shall conduct independent technical reviews and assessments of PEO MS 
weapons systems’ milestone decision entrance and exit criteria, review acquisition docum entation, 
including, but not limited to Systems Engineering Plans (SEP), Test and Evaluation Master Plan (TEMP), 
Preliminary Design, and Critical Designs. The Contractor shall assess the data that verifies the weapon 
system architecture, design, and implem entation against technical requirements. The Contractor shall  
 conduct assessments of technology and manufacturing readiness level review applied research initiatives 
applicability to PEO MS weapon systems’ performance; and conduct Warfighter materiel needs  analyses. 
The contractor shall develop scenarios for PEO MS Cybersecurity and Electro -Magnetic Activities 
(CEMA) and provide on -site support during execution of exercises and test events. The Contractor shall 
analyze emerging systems for Defense Exportabi lity Features (DEF) and recommend nomination of 
systems with strong potential for FMS to the DEF program.  
 
C.2.2 Concepts, Architectures, and Capabilities Development  
 
C.2.2.1  The Contractor shall identify and evaluate technologies and assess the applica bility to the PEO 
MS weapons systems’ near -term and long -term operational needs or user requirements. The contractor 
shall evaluate and prioritize S&T efforts and assess suitability to meet intended objectives and 
performance requirements and integration i nto PEO MS weapons systems. The Contractor shall identify 
and assess continuous improvement concepts and strategies the applicability to PEO MS weapons 
systems.  
 
C.2.4.2  The Contractor shall evaluate the inherent producibility of PEO MS weapons systems 
technologies, designs, and design changes, and identify and evaluate the associated issues and impacts on 
economic feasibility of production. The Contractor shall identify i mprovements in the weapons system 
that would result in an economically producible design.  
 
C.2.2.2 The Contractor shall possess an in -depth understanding of Model Based Systems Engineering 
(MBSE). The contractor shall develop and maintain the PEO MS Digit al Enterprise (DE) tools for 
implementing common, efficient, and effective technical integration processes across the PEO MS 
portfolio. The contractor shall update and maintain the Integrated Master Schedule (IMS) for execution of 
the PEO MS activities and  Integrated Fires test events. The contractor shall maintain the PEO MS Project 
Server and provide technical expertise to the PEO MS IMS Integrated Product Team (IPT). The contractor 
shall provide subject matter expertise in Risk, Issue, and Opportunity Ma nagement (RIOM), to include 
risk analysis/mitigation, identifying opportunities, and monitoring and process planning.  
 
C.2.2.3  The Contractor shall develop weapons systems’ physical, functional, and software architectures, 
interfaces, and interoperabilit y requirements.  
 
C.2.3 Design Engineering  
 
C.2.3.1  The Contractor shall conduct research, technical examination, and assessment of the capability 
requirements, technological needs, and system/sub -system architecture and design of PEO MS weapons 
systems t o develop increased performance against threats in a Multi -Domain Operations (MDO) 
environment. This research must include, but is not limited to, platform or architecture size, weight, and 
power constraints, interfaces, integration considerations, input a nd output limitations, design for 
exportability, export licensing, requirements verification, and other design constraints.  
 
C.2.3.2  The Contractor shall define approaches for integration of new technical components into PEO MS 
weapons systems to increas e system functionality or performance, reduce cost, increase survivability or 
sustainability. The Contractor’s analysis must account for design considerations including but not limited 
to industrial base capabilities, Technology Readiness Level (TRL), and manufacturing challenges, and 
provide risk analysis and risk mitigation plans in terms of technical complexity, cost, schedule, special 
material development and alternative technology development paths.   
  
C.2.4 Systems Integration  
 
C.2.4.1 The Contractor s hall develop the PEO MS Integrated Fires (IF) System -of-Systems (SoS) 
architecture strategy to include system capability and performance requirements, design constraints, and 
integration interfaces for U.S. and foreign stakeholders.  
 
C.2.4.2 The Contractor shall evaluate the inherent producibility of PEO MS weapons systems 
technologies, designs, and design changes, and identify and evaluate the associated issues and impacts on 
economic feasibility of production. The Contractor shall identify i mprovements in the weapons system 
that would result in an economically producible design.  
 
C.2.4.3  The Contractor shall evaluate PEO MS weapons systems’ operating requirements, design 
constraints, capabilities, and test data, to define performance metrics with respect to form, fit, function, 
producibility, and affordability. Areas of evaluation include,  but are not limited to survivability, mobility, 
lethality, protection, Reliability, Availability, and Maintainability (RAM), producibility, energy 
efficiency, sustainability, performance, operations, cost reduction, and value engineering.  
 
C.2.4.4  The C ontractor shall adhere to all customer -directed training requirements and provide training 
and exercise support PEO MS to ensure personnel have the needed skills to execute mission requirements. 
The Contractor shall provide technical services for conductin g training and executing PEO MS events.  
 
C.2.4.5 The Contractor shall design, develop, integrate, test, and deliver high -fidelity prototype 
virtualizations of critical computing hardware and software components for weapon systems in the PEO 
MS portfolio. The Contractor shall assist in the development of the required hardware, firmware, software 
interfaces, and dynamic modeling and simulation (M&S) capabilities to allow for integration of the high -
fidelity prototype virtualizations and detection algorithms into existing test beds and/or hardware -in-the-
loop (HWIL) test infrastructures to facilitate repetitive, destructive testing and demonstrations. The 
Contractor shall perform strategic research and analysis on the convergence of Cyber, Electronic Warfare 
(EW), Electronic Attack (EA), Electronic Protection (EP), and Positioning, Navigation and Timing (PNT) 
activities into a coherent, enduring Cybersecurity and Electro -Magnetic Activities (CEMA) strategy to 
prioritize threat analysis and prototype capability development. The Contractor shall conduct weapon 
system -specific Risk Studies (RS) to determine critical components. The Contractor shall conduct focused 
Criticality Analyses (CA) involving detailed research, decomposition, and analysis of the Lifecycle 
Supply Chain Security process, with specific emphasis on Supply Chain Risk Management (SCRM). The 
Contractor shall develop prototype virtual representations of critical components based on convergence, 
RS, and CA results. The Contractor shall develop the req uired hardware and/or software to integrate the 
prototype virtualizations into the Assessment Environment. The Contractor shall develop and integrate 
into the weapon systems, and weapon system representations, prototype algorithms for threat detection 
and discrimination and advanced feature extraction. The Contractor shall plan and conduct CEMA 
assessments and analysis of weapon system critical computing hardware and software prototypes in 
operationally relevant environments, including development of any re quired data collection and analysis 
sensors, equipment, or tools. The Contractor shall provide reports on task activities including a summary 
of all analysis/reviews along with system improvement recommendations, strategic plans, system of 
system releasabi lity, and case development. Contractor cybersecurity efforts shall comply with DoDD 
8500.01, DoDI 3222.03, and AR 25 -2.  
  
 C.2.4.6  The Contractor shall evaluate PEO MS weapons systems for Critical Program Information (CPI) 
and facilitate the design and int egration of protective technologies to reduce the risk of unauthorized 
disclosure or inadvertent transfer of advanced technology or vulnerabilities. The contractor shall protect 
CPI designated as requiring enhanced security protections by the Original Clas sification Authority (OCA) 
through established PEO MS Special Access Programs (SAP) or Alternative Compensatory Control 
Measures (ACCM) programs. The contractor shall prepare and process program access requests and 
protect program data and artifacts in acc ordance with AR 380 -381. The contractor shall prepare and 
conduct annual training for SAP -accessed personnel. The contractor shall prepare and evaluate technical 
documentation for PEO MS weapons systems in accordance with the applicable Security Classifica tion 
Guide (SCG) and Program Security Guide (PSG). The Contractor shall ensure disclosure of Classified 
Military Information, Controlled Unclassified Information, and other sensitive data (Low -
Observable/Counter - Low Observable, etc) and systems are consis tent with U.S. Government, DoD, and 
Army disclosure authority and policies, and comply with the International Trafficking in Arms 
Regulations and export control policies in support of case development.  
 
C.2.4.7 The Contractor shall conduct SCRM analysis a nd physical inspection of PEO MS Weapons 
Systems to design and implementation, and verification of appropriate safeguards and countermeasures to 
minimize supply chain risk. This will include but is not limited to the identification of susceptibilities, 
vulnerabilities and threats throughout DoD’s supply chain and the development of mitigation strategies to 
combat those threats whether presented by the supplier, the supplied product and its subcomponents, or 
the supply chain.  
 
C.2.4.8  The Contractor shall demonstrate subject matter expertise in Department of Defense (DoD) 
regulations, Security Assistance Management Manual (SAMM), International Traffic in Arms 
Regulations (ITAR), the Arms Export Control Act (AECA), Executive Order 13526, National Security 
Decision Memorandum 119 (NSDM 119), DoD Directive 5230.11 – Disclosure of Classified Military 
Information to Foreign Governments and International Organizations, National Disclosure Policy (NDP -
1) , AR 12 -1, AR70 -41, AR 380 -381 Special Access Programs (SAPs)  and Sensitive Activities, DoDM S - 
5230.28 Low Observable / Counter -Low Observable (LO/CLO), DoD Directives and Instructions 5200 
series for Anti -Tamper (AT), Critical Program Information (CPI), and PEO MS policies and guides. The 
Contractor shall demonstr ate successful application of the  above -referenced regulations, policies, and 
directives to include, but not limited to: drafting of Tri -Service Committee Decision Memorandums (TSC 
DMs), Exceptions to National Disclosure Policy (ENDPs), Yockey waivers, MTC R memorandums, 
Delegation of Disclosure Letters (DDLs), requests for Exception to National Disclosure Policy (ENDP) 
packages affecting release of PEO MS systems to partner nations, and Third Party Transfer (TPTs) 
requests, The Contractor shall maintain wor king knowledge of Critical Program Information (CPI) 
assessments and Anti -Tamper Concepts/Plans for all exportable systems within the PEO.  
 
 
C.2.5 Strategic Analysis and Program Planning  
 
C.2.5.1  The Contractor shall perform program evaluation, review, and analysis in the areas of program 
management, planning, programming, budgeting, execution, cost, and schedule for the purpose of 
ensuring compliance with program goals and objectives are achieved IAW DoDI 5000.01 and provide 
overarching command guidance for input into command documentation.  
 
C.2.5.2  The Contractor shall provide quality and timely accounting expertise on resource management 
systems and those interfacing systems that have a financi al impact to ensure that accurate financial  
 information is available to customers in the area of responsibility. Interfacing systems may include 
functional areas such as logistics, budget, payroll, travel, and manpower. Scope may include current 
automated systems, legacy systems, and enterprise systems utilizing SOMARDS, Logistics Modernization 
Program (LMP), Procurement Integrated Enterprise Environment (PIEE), Mechanization of Contract 
Administration Services (MOCAS) and General Fund Enterprise Business S ystem (GFEBS).  
 
C.2.5.3 The Contractor shall perform data collection, data reduction, and data analysis on accounting and 
logistical systems in order to provide input and recommendations for budget and execution of funds and to 
ensure that program require ments are meeting developmental timelines and appropriate funding is utilized 
throughout program lifecycle.  
 
C.2.5.4  The Contractor shall analyze events, activities, and schedule data in order to provide evaluations 
on achieving hardware delivery and cas e milestones. Schedule data shall be analyzed to address the 
reasonableness and risks associated with achieving specific completion dates.  
  
C.2.5.5 The Contractor shall provide proactive and timely coordination of year -end closeout process with 
external agencies such as higher headquarters, customer, and DFAS. The Contractor shall provide advice 
concerning guidelines and public law such as the Federal Managers Financial Integrity Act (FMFIA), the 
Chief Financial Officers (CFO) Act, and other related fisca l guidance and policies. The Contractor shall 
develop technical, functional, and informational systems or processes to track financial data against 
performance measurements and policy to ensure compliance with current regulation and policy.  
 
C.2.5.6 The Co ntractor shall develop strategic direction and provide expert technical services in the 
analysis and development of acquisition documentation to meet developmental and production timelines 
in support of the national defense strategy and Army modernization efforts. Analysis may include or result 
in draft contract requirements packages, drafting solicitation documents, drafting program budget 
guidance or program budgets for Title 10 and Title 22 funds, manpower and force management 
documents, invoice analysis , and other documentation associated with execution of a program. The 
Contractor shall not perform as an approver on any official government documentation.  
 
C.2.5.7  The Contractor shall develop an evaluation plan to include a need for Defense Contract Audit 
Agency support, Technical Evaluation, Defense Contract Management Agency (DCMA) support or 
DCMA Commercial Item Group review of the prime or major suppliers. The C ontractor shall include the 
assessment of risk used to develop their evaluation plan and the best method of analysis. The Contractor 
shall participate in Government meetings as needed.  
 
C.2.5.8 The Contractor shall analyze contractor technical data and manufacturing techniques to assist in 
the determination of cost/price reasonableness of submitted sole source proposals through cost and price 
analysis by using accounting and auditing data, foreca sting techniques, weighted guidelines, learning 
curves, and regression analysis in order to recommend pricing objectives to the Government. Analysis 
will include all aspect of earned value management to ensure R&D efforts are monitored for cost, 
schedule, and performance against the integrated master schedule and budget of the program or security 
cooperation effort. The Contractor shall review, analyze, and evaluate cost or pricing data contained in 
proposals to determine reasonableness of all elements of c ost. The analysis shall include results of a 
Defense Contract Audit Agency Report, Technical Evaluation, Defense Contract Management Agency 
(DCMA) Report and DCMA Commercial Item Group report of the prime or major suppliers.  
   
 C.2.5.9  The Contractor shal l be required to provide financial analysis and accounting support to help the 
government achieve audit readiness as well as customer account management. The Contractor shall be 
required to support the creation and analysis of process mapping initiatives f or Title -10 and Title -22 
functions; respond to Dormant Account Review -Quarterly; complete, review, correct, and submit audit 
sample packages via approved systems; and train PEO MS personnel on current audit processes, best 
practices, or methods to be succe ssful in audit readiness. The contractor will develop best practices, 
procedures, and command guidance that complies with logistical, business management, and engineering 
regulations.  
 
C.2.5.10  The Contractor shall provide statistical and trend analysis o n audit tasks, financial error 
reporting, security assistance performance and deliveries against program schedule, and recommend 
corrective action to improve PEO MS overall performance. Corrective actions shall include Corrective 
Action Plans, Review and a nalysis of Notice of Findings and Recommendations, Standard Operating 
Procedures, internal testing of audit controls, and training of PEO MS personnel.  
 
C.2.5.11  The Contractor shall provide consultation services in support of the development of an 
enterp rise-wide strategic plan that incorporates efficiencies in the support, services and solutions provided 
by this activity or its customer organizations. Strategic enterprise planning should, at a minimum, factor in 
affordability goals and be consistent with  all Department of Defense (DoD) and Army level policies, 
campaign plans and strategic focus areas. The Contractor shall provide strategic analyses, assessments, 
and recommendations to this activity and/or its customer organizations.  
 
C.2.5.12  The Contrac tor shall be required to develop, evaluate, analyze and update long - range strategy 
and business plans with the ability to organize the details of multiple and related subjects, issues, and 
situations to present and recommend solutions in a logical, cohesi ve format.  
 
C.2.6. Non-Technical Tasks  
 
C.2.6.1 The Contractor shall successfully manage all ancillary duties and activities in support of all tasks 
referenced in Section 3. This includes, but not limited to: management of  information systems, attendance 
and participation in relevant meetings, engagements, and conferences, planning, scheduling, and 
budgeting of program goals and objectives, audits, strategic planning, interagency coordination, and 
broader U.S. government synchronization, and performing all  relevant tasks described in DoD and Army 
policies, directives, and guidelines governing enhanced security programs and Security 
Cooperation/Security Assistance activities.  
 
C.2.7 Security  
 
C.2.7.1  The Contractor and sub -contractors shall provide function al support services that require access to 
classified information, intelligence information, foreign intelligence information, and For Official Use 
Only information IAW DoDD 5220.22 -M. The Contractor shall be required to have prerequisite personnel 
securit y clearance for access to classified information including Special Access Programs (SAP) 
information and Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI). Contractors working on SAP shall have as a 
minimum a final Secret Clearance. Contractors working on SCI shal l have as a minimum a final Top 
Secret clearance. The Contractor shall have access to the Government -classified SIPRNET.  
 
C.2.7.2  Security requirements will be based upon the latest Security Classification Guide. The contractor 
and all associated sub -contractors shall develop internal security procedures to protect classified,  
 sensitive, unclassified, high dollar value, and hazardous items. The contractor and all associated sub -
contractors shall comply with FAR 52.204 -2, Security Requirements. Contractors  having access to 
information classified “Confidential”, “Secret”, or “Top Secret” shall comply with - (1) The Security 
Agreement (DD Form 441), including the National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual (DoD 
5220.22 -M) and (2) any revisions to Do D 5220.22 -M, notice of which has been furnished to the 
contractor. The contractor shall comply with all security classification requirements IAW the DD Form 
254, DoD Contract Security Classification Specification. The contractor shall maintain facilities f or 
storage and discussions of classified materials at the DoD XXXXXXX level.  
 
C.2.8 Cybersecurity  
 
C.2.8.1 The Contractor shall adhere to Cyber Security regulations and policies including the National 
Security Act; Clinger -Cohen Act; Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA); AR 25 -1 
Army Information Technology; AR 25 -2 Army Cybersecurity; Any applicable DoD 8500 series 
Directives and/or Instructions and their associated references (Cyber security); National Institute of 
Standards an d Technology (NIST) SP 800 series Special Publications (SP) and their associated references; 
CNSSI No. 1253 Security Categorization and Control Selection for National Security Systems;  
  
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction (CJCSI) and Chairma n of the Joint Chiefs of Staff 
Manual (CJCSM) 6000 Series; National Security Agency (NSA) Guides; Defense Information System 
Agency (DISA) Security Technical Implementation Guides (STIGs).  
 
 
C.3.0 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:  
 
C.3.1 OVERVIEW OF WORK REQUIRED:  The contractor's technical effort shall be under the 
direction of a contractor project manager who shall provide the overall contractor management of the TO 
including personnel, planning, quality control, direction, coordination and reviews neces sary to ensure 
effective contract performance. The contractor shall identify a TO manager to serve as a primary point of 
contact at the TO level.  
 
C.3.1.1  The requirements of this TO shall require technical interchange meetings to be scheduled at least 
monthly.  
 
C.3.2 Service during Crisis.  None of the work is considered mission -critical . 
 
C.3.3 On-site performance at Government facilities is anticipated. For all on -site performance, the 
Government will provide access to facilities, sites, office space an d equipment required to perform the TO 
(as determined to be necessary and available by the Contracting Officer’s Representative [COR]).  
 
C.3.4 Access to Government Property, Equipment, and Information.  Government Furnished Property, 
Equipment and Informati on (GFP/GFE/GFI) is not anticipated in support of this TO. If this changes in the 
future, the listing will be added as an appendix to this PWS via modification.  
 
C.3.5 Accident Reporting and Responsibilities  
 
C.3.5.1  Accident investigation and reporting t o higher command levels will remain with the  
U.S. Army at the host installation   
  
C.3.5.2  The Contractor shall report within one hour of an accident to the COR all available facts relating 
to each instance of damage to Government property and material or i njury to task order personnel . 
  
C.3.5.3  The Contractor shall immediately secure the accident area and wreckage until released by the 
accident investigation authority from the host installation. The COR will prepare the notification of 
release of equipment impacted by the accident or wreckage.  
 
C.3.5.4  If the Government conducts an investigation of the accident, the Contractor shall cooperate fully 
with the Government personnel until the investigation is completed.  
 
C.4.0 SECURITY REQUIREMENTS . The security requirements shall be in accordance with the 
following.  
 
C.4.1. Contractor Security Requirements  
 
C.4.1.1  All contractor personnel with an assigned duty location at a Government site shall be  
U.S. citizens and have, at a minimum, a SECRET clearance at the time of TO award.  
 
C.4.1.2 The contractor shall perform in accordance with the National Industrial Security Program 
Operating Manual (NISPOM) (DoD 5220.22M) and ensure that all classified material is handled in 
accordance with the contract  or latest appropriate security classification specifications. Foreign 
participation will not be allowed at the prime or subcontract level.  
 
C.4.1.3 The contractor will be required to access the internet, commercial e -mail services and the Secret 
Internet Protocol Router Network.  
 
C.4.1.4 Critical Program Information (CPI) . The contractor shall assist the Government in the 
identification of any inherited and new CPI. As directed by the Government, the contractor shall 
implement security measures for any ide ntified CPI to prevent unauthorized disclosure. As defined in 
DoD Instruction 5200.39, Critical Program Information (CPI) Protection Within the Department of 
Defense, CPI entails elements or components of a research, development, and acquisition program th at, if 
compromised, could cause significant degradation in mission effectiveness; shorten the expected combat -
effective life of the system; reduce technological advantage; significantly alter program direction; or 
enable an adversary to defeat, counter, co py, or reverse engineer the technology or capability. The 
contractor will be subject to internal and external audits of the implementation of security measures for 
handling CPI and will provide audit results to USASMDC upon request.  
 
C.4.2 Anti -Terrorism (AT)/Operational Security (OPSEC) training.  All contractor employees 
assigned to work in Government facilities must comply with all training and certification requirements 
applicable to all employees stationed in the same facility. Examples include, but ar e not limited to, 
completion of acceptable use policy acknowledgments , safety training, fire extinguisher training, 
evacuation and shelter -in-place  exercises, iWATCH training, etc. Questions regarding whether or not a 
particular  training event or course applies to contractors can be resolved by the COR.  
 
C.4.2.1  AT Level I Training . All contractor employees, including subcontractor employees, requiring 
access to Army installations, facilities, and controlled -access areas shall c omplete AT Level I awareness 
training within 30 calendar days after the contract start date or effective date of incorporation of this  
 requirement into the contract, whichever is applicable. The contractor shall submit certificates of 
completion for each a ffected contractor employee and subcontractor employee, to the COR or to the 
contracting officer, if a COR is not assigned, within 10 calendar days after completion of training by all 
employees and subcontractor personnel. AT Level I awareness training is available at the following 
website: http://jko.jten.mil  
 
C.4.2.2 Access and general protection/security policy and procedures.  Contractor and all associated 
subcontractors  employees shall provide all information required for background checks to meet 
insta llation access requirements to be accomplished by installation Provost Marshal Office, Director of 
Emergency Services or Security Office. Contractor workforce must comply with all personal identity 
verification requirements (FAR clause 52.204 -9, Personal I dentity Verification of Contractor Personnel) 
as directed by DOD, HQDA and/or local policy. In addition to the changes otherwise authorized by the 
changes clause of this contract, should the Force Protection Condition (FPCON) at any individual facility 
or installation change, the Government may require changes in contractor security matters or processes.  
 
C.4.2.2.1  For contractors requiring Common Access Card (CAC).  Before CAC issuance, the 
contractor employee requires, at a minimum, a favorably adjudicated  National Agency Check with 
Inquiries (NACI) or an equivalent or higher investigation in accordance with Army Directive 2014 -05. 
The contractor employee will be issued a CAC only if duties involve one of the following: (1) Both 
physical access to a DoD fac ility and access, via logon, to DoD networks on -site or remotely; (2) Remote 
access, via logon, to a DoD network using DoD -approved remote access procedures; or (3) Physical 
access to multiple DoD facilities or multiple non -DoD federally controlled facilit ies on behalf of the DoD 
on a recurring basis for a period of 6 months or more. At the discretion of the sponsoring activity, an 
initial CAC may be issued based on a favorable review of the FBI fingerprint check and a successfully 
scheduled NACI at the Off ice of Personnel Management.  
 
C.4.2.2.2  For contractors that do not require CAC, but require access to a DoD facility or 
installation.  Contractor and all associated sub -contractors employees shall comply with adjudication 
standards and procedures using the  National Crime Information Center Interstate Identification Index 
(NCIC -III) and Terrorist Screening Database (TSDB) (Army Directive 2014 -05/AR 190 -13), applicable 
installation, facility and area commander installation/facility access and local security p olicies and 
procedures (provided by  government representative), or, at OCONUS locations, in accordance with status 
of forces agreements and other theater regulations.  
 
C.4.2.3  AT Awareness Training for Contractor Personnel Traveling Overseas.  
US based con tractor employees and associated sub -contractor employees are required to make available 
and to receive government provided area of responsibility (AOR) specific AT awareness training as 
directed by AR 525 -13. Specific AOR training content is directed by t he combatant commander with the 
unit Antiterrorism Officer (ATO) being the local point of contact.  
 
C.4.2.4 iWATCH Training.  The contractor and all associated sub -contractors shall brief all employees 
on the local iWATCH program (training standards provide d by the requiring activity ATO). This local 
developed training will be used to inform employees of the types of behavior to watch for and instruct 
employees to report suspicious activity to the COR. This training shall be completed within 30 calendar 
days of task order award and within 15 calendar days of new employees commencing performance with 
the results reported to the COR NLT 45 calendar days after task order award.  
  
 C.4.2.5  Army Training Certification Tracking System (ATCTS) registration for contra ctor 
employees who require access to government information systems.  All contractor employees with 
access to a government info system must be registered in the ATCTS (Army Training Certification 
Tracking System) at commencement of services, and must succes sfully complete the DOD Information 
Assurance Awareness prior to access to the IS and then annually thereafter.  
 
C.4.2.6 For contracts that require a formal OPSEC program . The contractor shall develop an OPSEC 
Standing Operating Procedure (SOP)/Plan within 90 calendar days of task order award, to be reviewed 
and approved by the responsible Government OPSEC officer. This plan will include a process to identify 
critical information, where it is located, who is responsible for it, how to prote ct it and why it needs to be 
protected. The contractor shall implement OPSEC measures as ordered by the commander. In addition, 
the contractor shall have an identified certified Level II OPSEC coordinator per AR 530 -1. (CDRL A052: 
OPSEC Plan; A draft of th is document shall be provided within 15 business days of the award of this TO 
and not as part of the initial proposal.)  
 
C.4.2.7  For contracts that require OPSEC Training . Per AR 530 -1 Operations Security, the contractor 
employees must complete Level I OPSEC Awareness training. New employees must be trained within 30 
calendar days of their reporting for duty and annually thereafter. OPSEC Awareness is available at the 
following website: http://cdsetrain.dtic.mil/opsec/index.htm  
 
 
C.4.2.8  For information assurance (IA)/information technology (IT) training . 
All contractor employees and associated sub -contractor employees must complete the DoD IA awareness 
training before iss uance of network access and annually thereafter. All contractor employees working 
IA/IT functions must comply with DoD and Army training  requirements in DoDD 8570.01, DoD 
8570.01 -M and AR 25 -2 within six months of appointment to IA/IT functions.  
 
C.4.2.9  For information assurance (IA)/information technology (IT) certification . Per DoD 8570.01 -
M , DFARS 252.239.7001 and AR 25 -2, the contractor employees supporting IA/IT functions shall be 
appropriately certified upon contract award. The  
baseline certificati on as stipulated in DoD 8570.01 -M must be completed upon contract award.  
 
C.4.2.10  For contractors authorized to accompany the force.  DFARS Clause 252.225 - 7040, 
Contractor Personnel Authorized to Accompany U.S. Armed Forces Deployed Outside the United Sta tes. 
The clause shall be used in solicitations and contracts that authorize contractor personnel to accompany 
US Armed Forces deployed outside the US in contingency operations; humanitarian or peacekeeping 
operations; or other military operations or exerci ses, when designated by the combatant commander. The 
clause discusses the following AT/OPSEC related topics: required compliance with laws and regulations, 
pre-deployment requirements, required training (per combatant command guidance), and personnel data 
required.  
 
C.4.2.11  For Contract Requiring Performance or Delivery in a Foreign Country . DFARS Clause 
252.225 -7043, Antiterrorism/Force Protection for Defense Contractors Outside the US. The clause shall 
be used in solicitations and contracts that require performance or delivery in a foreign country. This clause 
applies to both contingencies and non -contingency support. The key AT requirement is for non -local 
national contractor personnel to comply with theater clearance requirements and allows the combatan t 
commander to exercise oversight to ensure the contractor’s compliance with combatant commander and 
subordinate task force commander policies and directives.   
  
C.4.2.12  Handling or Access to Classified Information.  The contractor shall comply with FAR 52.2 04-
2, Security Requirements (MAR 2021)  
 
C.4.2.12.1  This clause applies to the extent that this contract involves access to information classified 
Confidential, Secret, or Top Secret.  
 
C.4.2.12.2  The Contractor shall comply with (1) the Security Agreement ( DD Form 441), including the 
National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual (32 CFR part 117), and (2) any revisions to that 
manual, notice of which has been furnished to the Contractor.  
 
C.4.2.12.3  If, subsequent to the date of this contract, the se curity classification or security requirements 
under this contract are changed by the Government and if the changes cause an increase or decrease in 
security costs or otherwise affect any other term or condition of this contract, the contract shall be subj ect 
to an equitable adjustment as if the changes were directed under the Changes clause of this contract.  
  
C.4.2.12.4  The Contractor agrees to insert terms that conform substantially to the language of this clause, 
including this paragraph (d) but excludi ng any reference to the Changes clause of this contract, in all 
subcontracts under this contract that involve access to classified information.  
 
C.4.2.13  Threat Awareness Reporting Program . For all contractors with security clearances. Per AR 
381-12 Threat Awareness and Reporting Program (TARP), contractor employees must receive annual 
TARP training by a CI agent or other trainer as specified in 2 -4b of AR 381 -12. 
 
C.4.2.14  Threat Awareness and Reporting Program (TARP) training . The contractor and any  
subcontractors over whom they have cognizance must attend live TARP training at least annually and 
report threat -related incidents, behavioral indicators, and other matters of counterintelligence (CI) interest 
specified in chapter 3 (Reporting Requirement s) of the Army Regulation 381 -12, to the facility security 
officer, the nearest military CI office, the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), or the Defense Security 
Service. Certificates of completion must be provided to the cognizant COR and KO on an an nual basis.  
 
C.4.2.15  Controlled Unclassified Information (CUI).  The contractor shall comply with the DoDI 
5200.48, paragraph 3.6 (b), dated 6 March 2020, mandating every individual at every level, including 
contractors providing support to the DoD pursuant to contractual requirements, will comply with the 
requirement for initial and annual refresher CUI training. See Appendix A for training location.  
 
C.5.0 PLACE OF PERFORMANCE / DUTY HOURS / TRAVEL . 
 
C.5.1 Performance under this TO is anticipated to occur at the contractor’s facility as well as Government 
facilities. For all on -site performance (i.e., Government site), the Government will provide access to 
facilities, sites, office space and equipment required to perform the TO (as determined to be necessary and 
available by the Contracting Officers Representative [COR ]). Known performance under this TO is to 
occur at Building 5220/5221 on Redstone Arsenal. Space will be provided for all contractors at this 
facility. Performance at other Government locations may be required as well.  
 
C.5.2 Duty Hours.  Unless otherwise s tated in this PWS or as directed by the responsible contracting 
officer, the contractor shall ensure that appropriate technical capability is available to provide responses to 
specific tasks during a 40 -hour work week. The contractor may be required to pro vide labor hours in  
 excess of 40 hours per work week to include holidays, weekends, and/or during irregular times and shifts 
based upon mission operations and exercises.  
 
C.5.3 Travel.  Travel may be required in performance of this TO. Specific travel requi rements will be 
identified and funded as the need arises. The contractor has no authority to incur travel costs without 
explicit written approval of the COR (e -mail is acceptable). Under no  
  
circumstances shall the contractor incur travel costs in excess of the funded amount stated in the TO. 
Specific times, dates and places of travel shall be identified in the request for approval.  
 
C.5.3.1 The contractor shall not be reimbursed for local travel.  
 
 
 
 
CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  
 
52.247 -29 F.O.B. Ori gin FEB 2006  
52.247 -34 F.O.B. Destination NOV 1991  
 
CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY FULL TEXT  
 
52.211 -11 LIQUIDATED DAMAGES --SUPPLIES, SERVICES, OR RESEARCH AND  
DEVELOPMENT (SEP 2000)  
(a) If the Contractor fails to deliver the supplies or perform the services within the time specified  
in this contract, the Contractor shall, in place of actual damages, pay to the Government  
liquidated damages of * to be determined at the task order level when applicable per 
calendar day of delay.  
 
(b) If the Government terminates this contract in whole or in part under the Default --Fixed -Price  
Supply and Service clause, the Contractor is liable for liquidated damages accruing until the  
Government reasonably obtains delivery or performance of similar supplies or services.  These  
liquidated damages are in addition to excess costs of repurchase under the Termination clause.  
 
(c) The Contractor will not be charged with liquidated damages when the delay in delivery or  
performance is beyond the control and without the fault or n egligence of the Contractor as  
defined in the Default --Fixed -Price Supply and Service clause in this contract.  
 
* To be completed at the task order level, when applicable  
 
C.6.0 DATA RIGHTS ASSERTION AND INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY  
 
C.6.1 The contractor shall identify and assert any restrictions or limitations on the Government’s use, 
release, or disclosure of technical data or computer software pertaining to the requirements of this PWS. 
These assertions shall be included in any proposals,  including responses to any technical directive 
received from the Government. The contractor shall comply with the Instructions Pertaining to Assertions 
Regarding Data Rights and Intellectual Property as provided in Exhibit B of the TORP. The contractor’s 
assertions, including the assertions of its subcontractors or suppliers, shall be submitted with the proposal  
 to the Contracting Officer for review. If no assertions are made, the contractor shall state “None,” sign, 
and date.  
 
C.6.2 Reporting "Subject Inv entions."  In accordance with DFARS 252.227 -7038 (large business) and 
FAR 52.227 -11/DFARS 252.227 -7039 (small business and nonprofit), the contractor shall disclose and 
report via DD Form 882 any "subject inventions" (as defined in the clauses) to the admin istrative 
contracting officer/procuring contracting officer. Additional instructions are provided in Exhibit C in 
Section J of the basic contract. Annual and final reports (including negative reports) are required of the 
contractor and its subcontractors.  
 
C.6.3 Proprietary Markings on Non -Technical Data . The contractor shall notify the KO of any 
deliverables/CDRLs that may contain non - “technical data” information (as defined in DFARS 252.227 -
7013(a)(15)) that the contractor intends to assert and mark as “proprietary.” The contractor shall identify 
the specific information and provide justification for its “proprietary” claim. The contractor and the KO 
shall agree upon permitted uses and disclosure of such information and the contractor agrees to mark such  
information with the following legend: “Proprietary – Special License: Use and disclosure is permitted 
within the Government for Government Purposes (as defined in DFARS 252.227 -7013(a)(12)). All other 
use and disclosure requires a non -disclosure agreemen t.” Note: This also applies to the support 
contractors.  
 
C.7.0 MATERIALS / OTHER DIRECT COSTS (ODC) / PRODUCT OWNERSHIP.  All 
hardware produced and equipment obtained by the contractor in the performance of this PWS shall 
become the property of the Governme nt and shall be provided to USASMDC.  
 
C.7.1 Material Costs . There are no anticipated material costs associated with this TO.  
 
C.7.2 ODCs . The contractor shall purchase all material, equipment, hardware, software, etc. required to 
accomplish each TO unless the item is identified as GFP, GFS, GFE, or GFI. Accountability shall be 
maintained by the contractor until such property (both Contractor -Acquired Property [CAP] and GFP) is 
delivered to the Government, or otherwise disposed of in accordance with Government direction. The 
CAP shall be disposed of per the KO or as directed by the Basic contract or TO.  
 
Regardless of cost, all software End U ser License Agreements (EULAs), to include Open Source 
Software (OSS), and vendor Terms and Conditions (T&Cs) must be submitted to the KO for review and 
approval prior to the purchase being completed. Regarding OSS: If the work to be accomplished is 
unclas sified, the contractor must provide an analysis on how the Prime/Subcontractor and the Federal 
Government will comply with the disclosure requirements in the software license; and if the work to be 
accomplished is classified, the Federal Government believe s that the classification of this effort negates 
all disclosure requirements in the public licenses and the contractor must confirm that this is the case. The 
Federal Government presumes that FAR clause 52.232 -39, Unenforceability of Unauthorized Obligatio ns, 
excludes the Federal Government from any indemnity provisions in the EULAs or T&Cs. All EULAs and 
T&Cs must be governed by Federal Law.  
 
The Contractor must review any ODC computer hardware and software purchases IAW the Army 
Computer Hardware Enterpri se Software and Solutions (CHESS) Program. If the item is applicable to 
CHESS and can be purchased through a non -CHESS vendor, then the Contractor shall process an 
Information Technology Approval System waiver.  
  
 C.8.0 SERVICE CONTRACT REPORTING . The contra ctor shall provide details on how it will track 
information for the Service Contract Report. The contractor shall report ALL contractor labor hours 
(including subcontractor labor hours) required for performance of services provided under this TO via a 
secure data collection site. The contractor is required to completely fill in all required data fields using the 
following web address: https://www.sam.gov/. Reporting inputs will be for the labor executed during the 
period of performance during each Governmen t fiscal year, which runs October 1 through September 30. 
While inputs may be reported any time during the fiscal year, all data shall be reported no later than 
October 31 of each calendar year, beginning with 2022. Contractors may direct questions pertain ing to the 
website to the help desk at: https://www.sam.gov.  
 
C.9.0 PERFORMANCE OBJECTIVES/METRICS.  This performance -based service TO incorporates 
the performance objectives set forth in Performance Requirements Summary (PRS) matrix, Appendix B, 
of this PWS. The performance objectives in the PRS are derive from the Government’s Quality Assurance 
Surveil lance Plan (QASP), which is for internal  use only. It is the contractor’s responsibility to employ the 
necessary resources to ensure accomplishment of these objectives. The Government’s assessment of the 
contractor’s performance in achieving these objectiv es will utilize the performance standards, acceptable 
quality levels, surveillance methods, and performance evaluation ratings described in the PRS matrix. The 
performance evaluation ratings will be implemented via the Government’s past performance assessm ent 
conducted in accordance with FAR Part 42 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), as applicable.  
 
C.10 The contractor is responsible for ensuring adequate marking and security measures are in place to 
prevent unauthorized access to electronic data.  The contractor is not authorized to provide copies of any 
data on the CDRL to activities who are not specifically identified in the distribution block of the CDRL 
without written Government approval from the contracting officer.  
 
C.11.0 KEY PERSONNEL  
 
C.12.1 Program Manager . The Government has determined that the Program Manager is Key Personnel. 
Prior to replacing personnel in this position during contract performance, the contractor shall provide the 
Contracting Officer not less than thirty (30) days adv ance notice and shall submit justification (including 
proposed substitutions) in sufficient detail to permit evaluation of the impact on the program.  
Section D. Packaging & Marking  
D.1  Packing and marking of technical data and deliverables to be delivered  pursuant to the requirements 
of each individual task order shall be in accordance with Contractor's standard commercial practices. 
Items shipped shall be marked in accordance with the instructions provided with each task order . 
 
Section E. Inspection and Acceptance  
 
E.1 Inspection and acceptance shall be performed by the Government at destination, unless specified 
otherwise in individual task orders, via DD Fann 250, Material Inspection and Receiving Report. The 
contractor shall submit a final DD Form 250 upon completion of each task order. Final acceptance of all 
task orders shall be made by the Contracting Officer.  
 
CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  
 
52.246 -1 Contractor Inspection Requirements  APR 1984   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section F. Deliveries or Performance  
 
F.1 Place of Performance.  The primary place of performance for this contract shall be established by 
individual task orders. It is anticipated that most task order efforts, except those requiring access to 
Government SAP and/or SCI facilities, shall be perfo rmed at the contractor's site (off -site). Authority for 
all G overnment -site (on -site) performance  shall clearly be identified in awarded task orders.  
 
CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  
 
52.247 -29 F.O.B. Origin FEB 2006  
52.247 -34 F.O.B. Destination NOV 1991  
 
CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY FULL TEXT  
 
52.211 -11 LIQUIDATED DAM AGES --SUPPLIES, SERVICES, OR RESEARCH AND 
DEVELOPMENT (SEP 2000)  
 
(a) If the Contractor fails to deliver the supplies or perform the services within the time specified in this 
contract, the Contractor shall, in place of actual damages, pay to the Government li quidated damages 
of * to be determined at the task order level when applicable  per calendar day of delay.  
 
(b) If the Government terminates this contract in whole or in part under the Default --Fixed -Price Supply 
and Service clause, the Contractor is liable for  liquidated damages accruing until the Government 
reasonably obtains delivery or performance of similar supplies or services. These liquidated damages 
are in addition to excess costs of repurchase under the Termination clause.  
 
(c) The Contractor will not be c harged with liquidated damages when the delay in delivery or performance 
is beyond the control and without the fault or negligence of the Contractor as defined in the Default --
Fixed -Price Supply and Service clause in this contract.  
* To be completed at the  task order level, when applicable  52.246 -2 Inspection Of Supplies --Fixed Price  AUG 1996  
52.246 -3 Inspection Of Supplies Cost -Reimbursement  MAY 2001  
52.246 -4 Inspection Of Services --Fixed Price  AUG 1996  
52.246 -5 Inspection Of Services Cost -Reimbursement  APR 1984  
52.246 -7 Inspection Of Research And Development Fixed Price  AUG 1996  
52.246 -8 Inspection Of Research And Development Cost Reimbursement  MAY 2001  
52.246 -13 Inspection --Dismantling, Demolition, or Removal of 
Improvements  AUG 1996  
52.246 -15 Certificate of Conformance  APR 1984  
52.246 -16 Responsibility For Supplies  APR 1984  
252.246 -7000  Material Inspection And Receiving Report  MAR 2008   
  
F.2 Delivery Information . Delivery requirements will be specified in each awarded task order.  
 
F.3 Period of Performance. This contract will consist of a base ordering period of one (1) year and two 
(2) optional orderin g periods of two (2) years. The period of performance for individual tasks shall be 
specified in each awarded task order. Task orders will typically be awarded with a performance period not 
to exceed 60 months, but may contain options for additional period s of performance for continued support 
a well as "surge" options to provide additional support within a given period. Specific performance 
periods, exercise periods, and other te rms and conditions associated with such options shall be specified in 
each ind ividually awarded task order. In no event shall any task order performance period, inclusive of all 
options, extend past 36 months beyond the end of the effective ordering period within which the task 
order is issued.  
 
 
F.5 Delivery of Data:  
 
a.  All data shall be delivered in accordance with the terms of each TO. Unless otherwis e 
     specified in the TO, FAR 52.247 -34 F.O.B. Destination shall apply to the delivery of data.  
  
b.  Each TO will specify the deliverables and delivery  requirements of the data to be furnished.  
 
c.  The contractor shall furnish the Contracting Officer one copy of al l transmittal letters  
     provided with each deliverable identified in each TO.  
 
d.  The e xtent of the Government's rights in data delivered or otherwise furnished under this  
     contract shall be governed by the special provisions and contract clauses incorporated   
     respectively in Section H and Section I of this contract as well as at t he TO level as  
     applicable.  
 
e.   Acceptance by the Government of all items delivered hereunder shall be at destination, unless  
      otherwise stated in the TO.  
   
a. Electronic media. including e -mail, shall be used to the maximum extent practical. The software and 
report fo rmats used shall be as required by each TO.  
 
Section G. Subcontract Administration  
 
G.1 SUBCONTRACT ADMINISTRATION  
 
a. Administration of this Subcontract and all individual TOs will be performed by the Quantum  
Contracts Manager, or her designated representative. Subject personnel are the only authorized 
Quantum representatives to negotiate and award Subcontracts, or make modifications such as changes 
thereto. Direction or changes by anyone other than the Contracts Manger or her designated 
representative will not be binding on Quantum. All correspondence shall be addressed to the following 
and contain the Subcontract number  and, if applicable, TO number.  
  
 b. Devin Crowe , Contracts Administrator is the primary point of contact for this Subcontract. He can be 
reached at 256 -971-1800, ext. 1261 , or via email at rcrowe@quantum -intl.com . 
 
c.  Additional Primary  Representative is Amy McGuire , Program Control Analyst . She can be reached at 
256-971-1800, ext. 11 55, or via email at amcguire@quantum -intl.com . 
 
d.  Technical Direction will be provided by the Quantum  Program Manager, Kevin  McGovern . He can be 
reached at 256-971-1800, ext. 1266 , or via email at kevin.b.mcgovern2.ctr@army.mil  
 
G.2 Incremental funding.  TO’s issued under this Subcontract may be incrementally funded in 
accordance with FAR 52.232 - 22, Limitation of Funds, DFARS 252.232 -7007, Limitation of 
Government’s Obligation, and/or appropriate legal authority. Quantum  will not be obligated to reimburse  
the Subcontractor in excess of the amount allotted and funded to a specific contract line item on any given 
TO, nor any amount in excess of the total obligated funding on any given TO. The Subcontractor is not 
required to incur costs beyond what has been funded Additionally, allotments of funds will become 
available only by a modification to any given TO.  
 
G.3 ACCOUNTING & APPROPRIATIONS. TO’s issued under this Subcontract may be incrementally 
funded in accordance with FAR 52.232 - 22, Limitation of Funds, DFARS 252.232 -7007, Limitation of 
Government’s Obligation, and/or appropriate legal authority. Quantum  will not be obligated to reimburse 
the Subcontractor in excess of the amount allotted and funded to a specific contract line item on any given 
TO, nor an y amount in excess of the total obligated funding on any given TO. The Subcontractor is not 
required to incur costs beyond what has been funded Additionally, allotments of funds will become 
available only by a modification to any given TO.  
 
G.4 INVOICING P ROCEDURES. Invoices are to be submitted via email to the Quantum Contracts 
Administrator at  rcrowe@quantum -intl.com  and Quantum Program Control Analyst at 
amcguire@quantum -intel.com  no more than once monthly and no later than the  7th  of each  month. 
Invoices, at a minimum should contain the following information:  
 
1. Subcontract/TO Number  
2. TO P eriod of Performance  
3. Period that is being invoiced  
4. Current and Cumulative Information  
5. Certification that the invoice is correct  
6. Supporting documentation shall be maintained for Government audit, if required.  
7. Invoices can be Subcontractor format  
8. Invoices must contain only one TO per invoice  
 
G.5 PAYMENT PROCEDURES  
 
a. Payment terms are within 10 days after receipt of payment from the government.  
b. This clause applies to all TOs, no matter what the type.  
c. Direct Deposit i s the preferred method of payment for invoices. The Direct Deposit  
    Information form is located at Attachment 5. If direct deposit is not selected, check will be  
    sent via USPS.   
  
G.6 MILESTONE PAYMENTS AND PERFORMANCE BASED PAYMENTS  
 
a. Section I includes FAR 52.232 -31, Performance Based Payments. TO’s may authorize  
    performance -based payments (when identified in the TO). The performance -based payment  
    schedule will be negotiated and included in each awarded TO where performance based  
    payments are authorized.  
b. When authorized, milestone payments will be identified in each awarded TO.  
 
Section H. Special Contract Requirements  
 
H.1 TASK ORDER PROCEDURES  
 
a. The Subcontractor shall incur costs under this Subcontract only in the performance of properly 
executed TOs and modifications to TOs issued by the Quantum  Contracts Manager, in accordance 
with these procedures. No other expenditures are authorized without the express written consent of 
the Quantum  Contracts Manager.  
 
b. All TO’s are subject to the terms and conditions of the basic subcontract; additional terms and 
conditions may be applicable to individual TO’s. In the event of a conflict between a TO and the basic 
subcontract, the basic subcontract will take precedence.  
 
c. All services to be performed under this subcontract will be set forth in individual TO’s. In urgent 
situations, Quantum  reserves the right to issue task orders on an undefinitized basis. Any s uch 
undefinitized order will be definitized in accordance with DFARS 252.217 -7027, Contract 
Definitization.  
 
d. TO’s will include as a minimum, (i) contract type (ii) a performance -based description of the 
requirement to be performed, (iii) the required deliv ery dates or overall periods of performance,  
(iv) list of Government -furnished property, (v) list of required deliverables, (vi) travel, other direct costs 
(ODCs) and/or material costs authorized if applicable and (vii) place of performance. Deliverables m ay 
consist of but are not limited to equipment, prototypes, technical reports, studies, analyses, charts, reports, 
briefing notes, tabulations, view graphs, computer software, materials, and presentations, as required by 
individual TO’s. The Subcontractor shall initiate task performance promptly upon the receipt of a fully 
executed task order or as otherwise directed by the Quantum  Contracts Manager at the time of award. The 
signed TO will incorporate all items agreed upon during TOP discussions and/or nego tiations.  
 
e. Reserved  
 
f. Reserved  
 
g. Reserved  
 
h. Task Order Cost Proposal Format, Submission Instructions, and Minimum Content Requirements:  
 
Task Order Proposals submitted in response to issued TORPs shall be based on the subcontractor’s most 
efficient and effect ive approach for accomplishing the task’s performance requirements in consideration 
of any other requirements and/or constraints identified by the TORP. All proposals shall be based on the  
 categories of labor identified in the Labor Category Descriptions a nd Minimum Requirements located at 
Attachment 02 of this contract. Additional labor categories or variations of these categories shall not be 
proposed. (Note: Subcontractor costs associated with the preparation, submission and/or negotiation of 
any task or der proposal shall not be allowable as a direct charge to the Government.  For TORPs requiring 
support of contingency operations/exercises in areas outside of the continental United States (OCONUS), 
referred to as the theater of operations, proposed estimat ed labor cost rates may be increased to 
incorporate allowances specified by the U.S. Department of State Standardized Regulations (DSSR). The 
amount and applicability of these allowances (e.g., danger pay and post differentials) shall be governed 
by, and s hall not exceed the limitations of, the current DSSR at the time of task order award. See 
“Additional OCONUS Deployment Clauses” for additional information. For all such rates proposed, the 
contractor shall fully delineate the proper application of these a llowances. All such rates shall be 
proposed, evaluated and negotiated on a task order -by-task order basis. The Contracting Officer may 
require a sealed proprietary package be submitted to the government to evaluate these proposed cost.  
 
The contractor shal l propose on -site (Government Site) rates and off -site (Contractor Site) rates in 
accordance with the Government’s anticipated allocation of performance set forth in individual TORPs.  
 
All proposals shall utilize the categories of labor identified in the D3I Labor Category Descriptions and 
Minimum Requirements at Attachment 02. Additional labor categories or variations of these categories 
shall not be proposed.  
 
i. Reserved  
 
j. Reserved  
 
k. Reserved  
 
l. Task Order Options: Pursuant to the clause at F AR 52.217 -9, Option to Extend the Term of the 
Contract, TORPs and resulting task orders issued under this contract may include options to provide 
additional periods of support and/or “surge” options to provide additional support within a task 
order’s given  performance period.  
 
1. TORPs and resulting task orders containing options shall specify the effort to be performed by the 
option, the quantities of DPPH to be performed under the option (Term options only), the performance 
period(s) in which the option(s) w ill be performed, and the time period in which the option(s) may be 
exercised by the Government.  
 
2. Estimated costs/proposed prices for all options shall be developed in accordance with the procedures 
described in subparagraph l above. The Government may uni laterally exercise task order options at its 
discretion, at the awarded quantities and costs/prices and within the exercise periods specified in the 
task order. All option exercises shall be executed by written modification to the task order.  
 
3. Surge option s may be prices and will be addressed in each individual TORFP.  
 
m. Reserved  
 
 
H2 SUBCONTRACTOR  TRAVEL   
 a. Temporary Duty (TDY)/non -local travel may be required in performance of individual TOs 
issued under this Subcontract. Specific travel requirements will be identified and funded as 
such need arises. The Subcontractor has no authority to incur travel costs w ithout explicit 
written  approval  from  the COR  through  the Quantum  Contracts  Manager.  Under  no 
circumstance shall Subcontractor incur travel costs in excess of the funded amount stated in 
the TO.  
b. Reimbursement for direct travel, subsistence, and lodging costs and applicable indirect rates 
shall be paid to the Subcontractor to the extent that such costs are necessary and incurred in 
the performance of specific TOs awarded under this Subcontract. Fee or profit on travel 
expenses is not an allowable reimbursement. Direct travel costs shall be limited to the 
maximum rates set forth in the following regulations (See FAR 31.205 -46 for additional 
information regarding travel costs):  
(1) Federal Travel Regulations (in effect at the time of travel) prescribed b y the General 
Services Administration for travel in the contiguous 48 United States;  
(2) Joint Travel Regulations Volume 2, DoD Civilian Personnel, Appendix A, prescribed by 
the Department of Defense for travel in Alaska, Hawaii, The Commonwealth of Puerto 
Rico, and the territories and possessions of the United States;  
(3) Standardized Regulations, (Government Civilians, Foreign Areas), Section 925, 
“Maximum  Travel  Per Diem  Allowances  in Foreign  Areas”  prescribed  by the Department 
of State, for travel in areas not covered in (a) and (b) above.  
 
c. Quantum  will reimburse  the Subcontractor  for actual  transportation  fare, limited  to “coach”  
rates unless prior approval of the Quantum Contracts Manager is provided, via the most 
direct routes between place of origin and destination. Cost for delays enroute (excluding 
Government caused delays, unavoidable airline schedule delays, and major acts of nature 
causing an unavoidable delay) will not be reimbursed. Per diem will be paid at Joint Travel 
Regulation (JTR) rates. To t he extent available, suitable Government quarters, messing, and 
surface transportation facilities may be used.  
d. When  travel  is required,  the following  requirements  shall  be followed:  
(1) Subcontractors will schedule flights at least 14 days in advance for known meetings in 
order to reduce airfare costs. "Emergency" meeting fares will be approved by the COR 
through Quantum prior to departure.  
(2) Subcontractors  will not send more  than 2 employe es or consultants  to any meeting,  unless 
advance written approval is obtained from the COR through Quantum.  
(3) All overseas travel will be booked 30 days in advance, and will be approved by the COR 
through Quantum prior to the booking.  
(4) All car rentals  will be economy  cars. Quantum  may authorize  larger  vehicles  upon  receipt  
of a justified request (based upon the number of travelers and equipment being carried). 
All requests will be in advance and submitted through the Quantum Contracts Manager.  
(5) Air fare will not be authorized  for trips less  than 200 miles  from  a home  station.  
(6) Subcontractors  are encouraged  to negotiate  "preferred  traveler"  arrangements  with US flag 
carriers.  
(7) Subcontractor’s  traveling  into Theatres  of Operation  must  travel  by mil-air unless  
 otherwise authorized by the COR through Quantum’s Contract Manager.  
(8) Subcontractors  are encouraged  to take advantage  of any discounts  (e.g. AAA,  Government 
Rates when available, Corporate Rates) when permitted.  
(9) Video  Teleconferences  shall  be used to the greatest  extent  possible.  
(10)Requests  for travel  on other  than “coach”  rates  shall  be submitted  to the Quantum  
Contracts Manager for submittal to the COR prior to execution of such travel.  
e. Quantum will not reimburse the Subcontractor or otherwise pay for commercial 
transportation, lodging, meals, or incidental ex penses associated with local travel. Local 
travel is defined as travel  within  the area of a 50 mile radius  of the primary  place  of 
performance.  However,  subject to the approval by the Contracting Officer through Quantum 
Contracts Manager, on a case-by- case basis, Subcontractor personnel may be  authorized  
reimbursement  or payment for the use of privately -owned vehicles (POV) in the direct 
performance of TO requirements. Such reimbursement or payment, if authorized, shall be 
limited to the curren t government POV mileage rate. In no event shall POV expenditures be 
claimed or paid for Subcontractor travel to and from the employee’s duty location/principle 
place of performance.  
f. Invitational  Travel  Orders will  NOT be  issued  by the Government for  Subco ntractor travel.  
g. Certain TOs may require the temporary deployment of contractor personnel to Outside the 
Continental  United  States  (OCONUS)  locations.  It is the Subcontractor’s  full responsibility  to 
obtain all passports, visas, or other documentation necessary to enter and/or exit any area; to 
verify and comply with all Status of Forces Agreement (SOFA), or Technical Expert Status 
Accreditation  (TESA)  requirement;  to register  all personnel  with the appropriate  U.S. Embassy 
or Consulate; a nd to comply with all other mandated requirements.  
 
H3 KEY  PERSONNEL  
a. The Subcontractor's  organization  shall  be established  with authority  to effectively  accomplish 
the objectives  of  the Task  Order  (TO)  award.  This organization shall  become  effective  upon  
award  of the Subcontract  and its integrity  shall  be maintained  for the duration of the 
Subcontract effort.  
b. Key Personnel positions  will be identified  at the Task Order level.  
c. Prior to replacing any key personnel, the contractor shall provide the Quantum Contracts 
Manager  with not less than twenty  (20) days advance  notice  and shall  submit  justification  
(including proposed substitutions) in sufficient  detail to permit evaluation of the impact on  the 
program.  No replacement  shall  be made  by the Subcontractor  without  the written  consent  of 
the Quantum Contracts Manager . 
H4 ORGANIZATIONAL  CONFLICTS  OF INTEREST  
a. Definitions:  
 
"Organizational Conflict of Interest" means that because of other activities or relationships with 
other  persons,  a person  is unable  or potentially  unable  to render  impartial  assistance  or advice  to 
the Government, or the person's objectivity in performing the contract work is or might be 
otherwise impaired, or a person has an unfair competitive advantage. "P erson" as used herein  
 includes  Corporations,  Partnerships,  Joint  Ventures,  Teaming  Arrangements,  and other  business 
enterprises.  
 
The term "contractor"  as used in this clause,  includes  any person,  firm or corporation  which  has a 
majority or controlling interest in the contractor or in any parent corporation thereof, any person, 
firm, or corporation in or as to which the contractor (or any parent or subsidiary corporation 
thereof)  has a majority  or controlling  interest.  The term also includes  the corporate  officers  of the 
contractor,  those  of any corporation  which  has a majority  or controlling  interest  in the contractor, 
and those of any corporation in which the contractor (or any parent or subsidiary corporation 
thereof) has a majority or controlling interest. All references to the “contractor” as contained  
in this clause  shall apply  with equal  force to  all of  these included.  
 
"Contract"  and "Task  Order"  shall  be used as applicable  to the level  at which  this clause  is being 
invoked.  
 
b. Impact  on Future  Agency  Contracts  and TOs:  
 
The following examples illustrate situations in which questions concerning organizational conflicts  
of interest  may arise.  They  are not all inclusive,  but are intended  to help the Contracting Officer 
apply general guidance to individual contract and TO situations:  
 
1. Unequal  access to information. Access  to "nonpublic  information" as part of the performance of 
a TO provided under the contract or work performed under a separate government contract 
could provide the contractor a competitive advantage in a later competition. Such an advantage 
could  easily  be perceived  as unfair  by a competing  vendor  who is not given  similar  access  to the 
relevant information. If the requirements of the government procurement anticipate the 
successful vendor may have access to nonpublic information, the successful vendor should be 
required to submit and negotiate an acceptable mitigation plan. Alternati vely, the "nonpublic 
information" may be provided to all vendors.  
 
2. Biased  ground  rules.  A contractor,  in the course  of performance  under  a TO or contract,  has in 
some fashion established important "ground rules" for another requirement, where the same 
contractor may be a competitor. For example, a contractor may have drafted the statement of 
work, specifications, or evaluation criteria of a future procurement. The primary concern of the 
government in this case is that a contractor so situated could  slant ke y aspects of procurement in 
its own favor, to the unfair disadvantage of competing vendors. If the requirements of the  
government procurement anticipate the contractor may have been in a position to establish 
important  ground  rules,  including  but not limited  to those  described  herein,  the contractor  should 
be required to submit and negotiate an acceptable mitigation plan.  
 
3. Impaired  objectivity.  A contractor  in the course  of performance  of a TO or contract,  is placed in 
a situation of providing assessme nt and evaluation findings over itself, or another business 
division, or subsidiary of the same corporation, or other entity with which it has a significant 
financial relationship. The concern in this case is that the contractor's ability to render imparti al 
advice to the government could appear to be undermined by the contractor's financial or other 
business relationship to the entity whose work product is being assessed or evaluated. In these 
situations, a "walling off" of lines of communication may well be insufficient to remove the 
perception that the objectivity of the contractor has been tainted. If the requirements of the  
 government procurement indicate that the successful vendor may be in a position to  
provide  evaluations  and assessments  of itself  or corporate  siblings,  or other  entity  with which  it 
has a significant financial relationship, the affected contractor should provide a mitigation plan 
that includes  recusal  by the vendor  from  the affected  contract  work.  Such  recusal  might  include 
divestiture of the work to a third party vendor. In order to prevent a future OCI resulting from 
potential bias, unfair competitive advantage, or impaired objectivity, the contractor shall be 
subject to the following restrictions:  
 
1. The contractor  shall  be excluded  from  competition  for, or award  of any Government  contracts as 
to which, in the course of performance of this contract, the contractor has received advance 
procurement information before such information has been made generally available to other 
persons or firms unless mitigation measures are put in place, to avoid, neutralize, or mitigate an 
OCI.  
 
2. The contractor shall be excluded from competition for, or award of any Government contract 
for which  the contractor  actually  assists  in the development  of the screening  information  request 
(SIR), specifications  or statements  of work  unless mitigation measures are put in place to avoid, 
neutralize or mitigate an OCI.  
 
3. The contractor shall be excluded from competition for or award of any Government contract 
which calls for the evaluation of system requirements, system definitions, or other products 
developed  by the contractor  under  this contract  or resulting  TOs unless  mitigation  measures  are 
put in place to avoid, neutralize or mitigate a nd OCI.  
 
4. The contractor shall  be excluded from competition for, or award of any Government  contract 
which calls for the construction or fabrication of any system, equipment, hardware, and/or 
software  for which  the contractor  participated  in the development  of requirements  or definitions 
pursuant to this contract or resulting TO unless mitigation measures are put in place to avoid, 
neutralize or mitigate and OCI.  
 
This clause shall not exclude the contractor from performing work under any amendmen t or 
modification  to this contract  or from  competing  for award  for any future  contract  for work  that is 
the same or similar to work performed under this contract.  This clause shall have effect throughout 
the period of performance of this contract (and any applicable task order performance period that 
exceeds the basic contract ordering period), any extensions  thereto  by change  order  or supplemental  
agreement,  and for three  (3) years  thereafter.  
 
The agency  may in its sole discretion,  waive  any provisions  of this clause  if deemed  in the best 
interest  of the Government.  The exclusions  contained  in this clause  shall  apply  for the duration of 
this contract and for three (3) years after completion and acceptance of all work performed 
hereunder.  
 
If any provision of this clause excludes the contractor from competition for, or award of any 
contract,  the contractor  shall  not be permitte d to serve  as a subcontractor,  at any tier, on such 
contract. This clause shall be incorporated into any subcontracts or consultant agreements awarded 
under this contract unless the Contracting Officer determines otherwise.  
 
c. Affirmative  Duties  and Responsibilities  for Government  Contractors:   
  
The contractor warrants that to the best of its knowledge and belief, and except as otherwise set 
forth in the contract, the contractor does not have any organizational conflict of interest(s) as 
defined in par agraph a. above. The contractor agrees that, if after award, it discovers an actual or 
potential organizational conflict of interest at the contract level it shall make immediate and full 
disclosure in writing to the Contracting Officer. Changes in the con tractor's relationships due to 
mergers, consolidations or any unanticipated circumstances may create an unacceptable 
organizational  conflict  of interest  which  would  necessitate  such disclosure.  The notification  shall 
include a description of the actual or potential organizational  conflict of interest, a description of 
the action that the contractor has taken or proposes to take to avoid, mitigate, or neutralize the 
conflict,  and any other  relevant  information  that would  assist  the Contracting  Officer  in making  a 
determination on this matter.  
 
The contractor, upon identification of a potential conflict, shall submit requests to participate in the  
TO for written  approval  on a TO-by-TO basis,  unless  the contractor  is aware  of multiple  TOs that 
may create the appearance of a conflict, or be an actual conflict. In the case of the later, the 
contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer as soon as the conflicts/apparent conflicts have been 
identified. This provision shall be in effect th roughout the period of performance of this contract, 
any extensions thereto by change order or supplemental agreement, and for three years thereafter.  
 
The contractor shall permit a Government audit of internal OCI mitigation procedures for 
verification pu rposes. The Government  reserves the right to reject a mitigation plan, if in the 
opinion  of the Contracting  Officer,  such a plan is not in the best interests  of the Government.  
 
The contractor  shall  hold the government  harmless  and will freely  indemnify  the Government  as to 
any cost/loss resulting from the unauthorized use or disclosure of any third -party proprietary 
information by its employees, the employees of subcontractors, or by its agents.  
 
The Contracting  Officer's  decision  as to the existence  or nonexistence  of an actual  or potential 
organizational conflict of interest shall be final.  The contractor shall include the same provisions 
as are expressed in this clause, including this paragraph, in all subcontracts awarded for 
performance of any portion of this requirement. This restriction is applicable throughout the 
period of performance of the subcontract, and any extensions thereof by change order or 
supplemental agreement, and for three years thereafter. When the provisions of this claus e are 
included in a subcontract, the term "Contracting Officer" shall represent the head of the contracts 
office of the prime contract. Any deviations or less restrictive coverage deemed necessary or 
required by the prime contractor for a particular subcon tract must first be submitted to the 
Contracting Officer for approval. Subcontract restrictions  will be limited  to the technical  area(s)  
addressed  in the specific  statements  of work  in the subcontractor’s given task orders.  
 
d. Compliance:  
 
Compliance with this OCI requirement is a material obligation of this contract. The rights and 
remedies described herein shall not be exclusive and are in addition to other rights and remedies 
provided  by law, including  those  set forth  at FAR  Part 9.5, or elsewhere  included  in this contract. If 
the contractor takes any action prohibited by this requirement or fails to take action required  by 
this requirement, the Government may terminate this contract for default. For breach of any  of the 
restrictions contained herein, or for nondisclosure or misrepresentation of any relevant facts  
 required to be disclosed concerning this contract, the government reserves the right to terminate 
this contract for default, disqualify the contractor for  subsequent related contractual efforts, and to 
pursue such other remedies as may be available under law. If in compliance with this clause, the 
contractor discovers and promptly reports an organizational conflict of interest subsequent to 
contract award, the Contracting Officer may choose to terminate this contract for convenience of 
the Government, when such termination is deemed to be in the best interest of  the Government.  
 
OCI AT THE  TASK  ORDER  LEVEL  
 
a. OCI / Advisory  and Assistance  Services  Possibilities.  
 
It is recognized  by the  parties hereto  that some of  the services identified  in the  PWS  may include  
(1) incidental advisory and assistance services (2) technical evaluation of other contractor’s 
products  and services;  (3) surveillance  of other contractor’s  services  and work  products;  and, (4) 
access  to other  contractors’  proprietary  information.  Such  activities  create  a significant  potential 
for certain conflicts of interest, as set forth in FAR 9.505 -1, FAR 9.505 -2, FAR 9.505 -3, and FAR 
9.505 -4. 
 
It is the intention of the parties that the contractor will not engage in any other contractual or other 
activities which could create an organizational conflict of interest with its position under this  
contract;  which  might  impair  its ability  to render  unbiased  advice  and recommendations;  or, in 
which it may derive an unfair competitive advantage as a result of knowledge, information, and 
experience gained during the performance of this contract. Therefore, the contractor agrees that it 
will seek  the prior written approval of the Contracting Officer before participating in any TO that 
may involve such a conflict.  The contractor agrees that it shall not release, disclose, or use in any 
way that would permit or result in disclosure to any party outside the government any information 
provided to the contractor  by the Government  during  or as a result  of performance  of this TO. 
Such  information includes, but is not limited to, information submitted to the Government on a 
confidential basis by other persons. Further, the prohibition against release of GFI extends to 
cover such information whether or not in its original form, where the information has been 
included in contractor  generated  work,  or where  it is discernible  from  materials  incorporating  or 
based  upon such information. This prohibition shall not expire after a given period of time.  
 
Whenever performance of this contract requires access to another contractor’s proprietary 
information, the contractor shall (1) enter into a written agreement wi th the other entities involved,  
as appropriate,  in order  to protect  such proprietary  information  from  unauthorized  use or disclosure 
for as long as it remains proprietary; and (2) refrain from using such proprietary information other 
than as agreed to, for example; to provide assistance during technical evaluation of other 
contractors' offers or products under this contract. An executed copy of all proprietary information 
agreements by individual personnel or on a corporate basis shall be furnished to th e TO 
Contracting Officer within fifteen (15) calendar days of execution.  
 
The contractor shall promptly notify the Contracting Officer, in writing, if it has been tasked to 
evaluate or advise the Government concerning its own products or activities or thos e of a 
competitor  in order  to ensure  that proper  safeguards  exist  to guarantee  objectivity  and to protect 
the Government's interest. In the event that a TO is issued to the contractor that would require 
activity that would create a potential conflict of in terest, the contractor shall:  
  
 1. Notify  the Contracting  Officer  of a potential  conflict  
 
2. Recommend  to the Government  an alternate  tasking  approach  which  would  avoid  the potential 
conflict, or,  
 
3. Present  for approval  a conflict  of interest  mitigation  plan that will: 
 
4. Describe  in detail  the TO requirement  that creates  the potential  conflict  of interest; and, 
 
5. Outline in detail the actions to be taken by the contractor or the Government in the 
performance  of the task to mitigate  the conflict,  division  of subcontractor  effort,  and limited 
access to information, or other acceptable means.  
 
6. The contractor  shall  not commence  work  on a TO related  to a potential  conflict  of interest 
until specifically notified by the Contracting Officer to proceed  
 
7. If the Contracting  Officer  determines  that it is in the best interest  of the Government  to issue  a 
TO, notwithstanding a conflict of interest, a request for waiver shall be submitted in accordance 
with FAR 9.503  
 
8. Conflicts  Of Interest  Compliance  Plan:  In the event  that a waiver  is requested,  the Contractor 
shall submit with the waiver request a Conflicts of Interest (COI) Compliance Plan to the 
Contracting Officer for approval. The COI Compliance Plan shall address the Contractor's  
approach for adhering to the Section H. Organizational Conflicts of Interest (OCI) and describe 
its procedures for aggressively self -identifying and resolving both organizational and employee 
conflicts of interest. The overall purpose of the COI Compliance  Plan is to demonstrate how the 
Contractor will assure that its operations meet the highest standards of ethical conduct, and how 
its assistance  and advice  are impartial  and objective.  The COI Compliance  Plan shall  specifically 
address:  
 
9. How  the Contractor  will protect  confidential,  proprietary,  or sensitive  information;  
 
10. Preventing  the existence  of conflicting  roles  that might  bias a contractor’s  judgment;  and, 
 
11. Preventing  an unfair  competitive  advantage.  
 
Contractors  are invited  to review  FAR  9.5 “Organizational  and Consultant  Conflicts  of Interest 
(OCI). “ Particular attention is directed to from FAR 9.505 -1 thru FAR 9.505 -4. 
 
b. Avoidance  of OCI.  
 
The policy  of the government  is to avoid  contracting  with contractors  who have  unacceptable 
organizational conflicts of interest.  
 
It is not the intent  of the government  to foreclose  a vendor  from  a competitive  acquisition  due to a 
perceived OCI. The Contracting Officers are fully empowered to evaluate each potential OCI 
scenario based upon the applicable facts and circumstances. The final determination of such action 
may be negotiated between the impaired vendor and the Contrac ting Officer. The Contracting  
 Officer's business judgment and sound discretion in identifying, negotiating, and eliminating OCI 
scenarios should not adversely affect the government’s policy for competition. The government is 
committed to working with poten tial vendors to eliminate or mitigate actual and perceived OCI 
situations, without detriment to the integrity of the competitive process, the mission of the 
government, or the legitimate business interests of the vendor community.  
 
c. Examples  of OCI concerns.  
 
These  examples  in which  OCI issues  may arise  are not all inclusive,  but are intended  only to help 
the TO Contracting Officer apply general guidance to individual contract and TO situations.  
 
1. Unequal Access to Information. Access to "nonpublic in formation" as part of the 
performance  of a government  TO could  provide  the contractor  a competitive  advantage  in 
a later competition for another government contract. Such an advantage could easily be 
perceived as unfair by a competing vendor who is not given similar  access to the relevant 
information. If the requirements of the government procurement anticipate the successful 
vendor may have access to nonpublic information, all vendors should be required to 
submit and negotiate an acceptable mitigation p lan. 
 
2. Biased Ground Rules. A contractor, in the course of performance of a Government 
contract, has in some fashion established a "ground rules" for another Government 
contract,  where  the same  contractor  may be a competitor.  For example,  a contractor  may 
have drafted the statement of work, specifications, or evaluations criteria of future 
government procurements. The primary concern of the government in this case is that a 
contractor so situated could slant key aspects of a procurement in its own favor, to the 
unfair disadvantage of competing vendors. If the requirements of the Government 
procurement  anticipate  the successful  vendor  may be in a position  to establish  important 
ground rules, including but not limited to those described herein, the successful vendor 
should be required to submit and negotiate an acceptable mitigation plan.  
 
3. Impaired objectivity. A contractor in the course of performance of a Government 
contract, is placed in a situation of providing assessment and evaluation findings over 
itself, or another business division, or subsidiary of the same corporation, or other entity 
with which it has a significant financial relationship. The concern in this case is that the 
contractor's ability to render impartial advice to the government  could appear to be 
undermined  by the contractor's  financial  or other  business  relationship  to the entity  whose 
work product is being assessed or evaluated. In these situations, a "walling off" of lines  
of communication may well be insufficient to remove t he perception that the objectivity 
of the contractor has been tainted. If the requirements of the government procurement 
indicate that the successful vendor may be in a position to provide evaluations and 
assessments of itself or corporate siblings, or oth er entity with which it has a significant 
financial relationship, the affected contractor should provide a mitigation plan that 
includes recusal by the vendor from the affected contract work. Such recusal might 
include divestiture of the work to a third pa rty vendor.  
 
d. Mitigation  plans.  
 
The successful contractor will be required to permit a government audit of internal OCI mitigation   
 procedures  for verification  purposes.  The Government  reserves  the right  to reject  a mitigation plan, 
if in the opinion of the Contracting Officer, such a plan is not in the best interests of the 
Government. Additionally, after award the Government will review and audit OCI mitigation 
plans as needed, in the event of changes in the vendo r community due to mergers, consolidations, 
or any unanticipated circumstances that may create an unacceptable organizational  
 
H5 COOPERATIVE -EDUCATION  AND  INTERN  PROGRAMS  
a. Definitions  for this clause:  
 
Co-Op Program:  a partnership  among  the student,  educational  institution,  and employer,  with 
specified responsibilities structured for each party by the educational institution.  
 
Intern Program: based on a company policy pertaining to the hiring and management of interns, the  
contractor  presents  a hands -on learning  experience  to qualified  College/University  candidates in a 
supportive, mentoring environment.  
 
b. Responsibilities:  Under  either  a Co-Op Program  or an Intern  Program,  the College/University 
teaches basic facts, theories, and principles while the employer provides the opportunity for a 
student to apply these facts, theories, and principles to practical work situations and problems.  
The subcontractor provides the student with assignments of increasing challenge and 
responsibilit y. The subcontractor  evaluates  the work  of the student  and discusses  the results  with 
him or her. The subcontractor is responsible for supervising the work of the student.  
 
c. Billing: The subcontractor is authorized to establish a Co -Op and/or Intern Program for 
performing  work  under  this contract.  The contractor  is authorized  to bill the government  for Co- 
Op and/or  Interns  based  on class  standing  as follows  (NOTE:  The entry -level  category  is Level  I 
of the appropriate D3I labor category.):  
 
Freshmen: Not more than 50% of the applicable entry -level estimated labor cost rate. 
Sophomore:  Not more  than 60% of the applicable  entry -level  estimated  labor  cost rate. 
Junior: Not more than 70% of the applicable entry -level estimated labor cost rate. 
Senior:  Not more  than 80% of the applicable  entry -level  estimated  labor  cost rate. 
 
Increases  in the percentage  billed  to the Government  are not authorized  until enough  course  work is 
completed to move the student to the next class standing.  
d. Approval Process: Prior to hiring an Intern and/or Co -Op to perform work under a task order, 
the subcontractor shall obtain written concurrence from the prime Contracting Officer. The 
Contracting  Officer  will consider  the level  requested,  and will also consider  the overall  mix of 
levels proposed to ensure a balanced approach to supporting this program.  
 
H6 WOUNDED  WARRIOR  PROGRAM  SUPPORT  
a. The US Army SMDC/ARSTRAT strongly endorses the Army’s Wounded Warrior Program 
and encourages the prime contractor and all subcontractors to emphasize the employment of 
America’s  wounded  warriors  in performance  of this contract.  A wounded  warrior  is defined  as 
an individual  that suffers  from  injuries  or illnesses  incurred  in the line of duty after September  
 10, 2001, in support of Overseas Contingency Operations since 9/11, and have received or 
expect to receive an Army Physical Disability Evaluation System rating of 30% or greater in 
one or more specific categories:  
1 Blindness/Loss of Vision; 1 
Deafness/Hearing  Loss;  
1 Fatal/Incurable Disease; 1 
Loss of Limb;  
1 Permanent  Disfigurement;  
1 Post Traumatic Stress Disorder; 1 
Severe Burns;  
1 Spinal Cord Injury/Paralysis;  1 
Traumatic Brain Injury; and/or  
1 Any other  condition  requiring  extensive  hospitalizations  or multiple  surgeries  
OR, is an individual that has received an Army Physical Disability Evaluation System combined 
rating equal to or greater than 50% for any other combat or combat related conditions.  
H7 PROGRAM  STATUS  REVIEWS   
 Quantum  will be required  to present  Program  Status  Review  annually  with the government.  It may 
be necessary for the Subcontractor to provide inputs or be in attendance of the meeting.  
Quantum  will make  requests  for information  or attendance  as timely  as allowed,  based  on 
government schedule.  
 
H8 RESERVED 
H9 RESERVED  
H10 COMPLETION  NOTICE  
Within  15 days of physical  completion  of each TO issued  under  this Subcontract,  the Subcontractor 
shall submit a notice of completion to the Quantum Contracts Manager specifying the following 
information:  
a. Contract  and TO number;  
b. Identification  of any “known”  excess  funding,  by CLIN/SLIN,  available  for immediate 
deobligation;  
c. A statement  regarding  delivery  status  of all required  deliverables  and reports;  
d. A statement  regarding  disposition  status  of all government -furnished  and subcontractor - 
acquired property;  
e. Delineation  of actual  DPPH expenditures  by labor category.  
 
H11 RESERVED  
 
H12 PATENTS  - REPORTING  OF INVENTIONS  
The contractor shall include the clause at DFARS 252.227 -7039 in all subcontracts with small 
businesses and non -profit organizations, regardless of tier, for experimental, developmental, or 
research work.  
 
H13 DISTRIBUTION  CONTROL  OF TECHNICAL  INFORMATION  
a. The following  terms  applicable to  this clause are  defined as  follows:  
 
1. Technical  Document:  Any recorded  information  that conveys  scientific  and technical 
information or technical data.  
 
2. Scientific and Technical Information. Communicable knowledge or information 
resulting  from  or pertaining  to conducting  and managing  a scientific  or engineering 
research effort.   
 3. Technical Data. Recorded information related to experimental, dev elopmental, or 
engineering  works  that can be used to define  an engineering  or manufacturing  process  or 
to design, procure, produce, support,  maintain, operate, repair, or overhaul material. The 
data may be graphic or pictorial delineations in media such as drawings or photographs, 
text in specifications or related performance or design type documents, or computer 
printouts.  Examples  of technical  data include  research  and engineering  data,  engineering 
drawings, and associated lists, specifications, st andards, process sheets, manuals, 
technical reports, catalog -item identifications, and related information and computer 
software documentation.  
 
b. Except  as may otherwise  be set  forth in  the Contract  Data  Requirements  List (CDRL),  
DD Form  1423,  (1) the distribution  of any technical  document  prepared  under  this contract,  in any  
stage  of development  or completion,  is prohibited  without  the approval  of the Contracting Officer 
and (2) all technical documents prepared under this contract shall initially be ma rked with the 
following distribution statement, warning, and destruction notice:  
 
1. DISTRIBUTION  STATEMENT  F - Further  dissemination  only as directed  by SMDC - 
IO-P or higher DOD authority.  
 
2. WARNING - This document contains technical data whose export is restricted by the 
Arms Export Control Act (Title 22, U.S.C., Sec 2751 et seq.) or the Export 
Administration Act of 1979, as amended, Title 50, U.S.C., app 2401 et seq. Violation of 
these  export  laws are subject  to severe  criminal  penalties.  Disseminate  in accordance  with 
provisions of DOD Directive 5230.25.  
 
3. DESTRUCTION NOTICE - For classified documents, follow the procedures in DOD 
5220.22 -M, National  Industrial  Security  Program  Operating  Manual  (NISPOM),  Chapter 
5, Section 7, or DOD 5200.1 -R, Information Security Program Regulation, Chapter IX. 
For unclassified, limited documents, destroy by any method that will prevent disclosure 
of contents or reconstruction of the document.  
 
c. As a part of the review of preliminary or working draft technical d ocuments, the Government 
will determine if a distribution statement less restrictive than the statement specified above 
would provide adequate protection. If so, the Government's approval/comments will provide 
specific instructions on the distribution stat ement to be marked on the final technical 
documents before primary distribution.  
 
H14 CRITICAL  PROGRAM  INFORMATION  
The Subcontractor  shall  assist  the Prime  and the Government  in the identification  of any inherited and 
new Critical Program Information (CPI). The Subcontractor shall implement security measures, as 
directed by the Government through Quantum, for any identified CPI to prevent unauthorized 
disclosure. Critical Program Information, as defined in DoD Instruction 5200.39, Critical  Program  
Information  (CPI)  Protection  Within  the Department  of Defense,  are elements  or components of a 
research, development, and acquisition (RDA) program that, if compromised, could cause significant 
degradation in mission effectiveness; shorten the expected combat - effective  life of the system;  
reduce  technological  advantage;  significantly  alter program  direction;   
 or enable an adversary to defeat, counter, copy, or reverse engineer the technology or capability. The  
Subcontractor  will be subject  to internal  and external  audits  of the implementation  of security 
measures for handling CPI and will provide audit results to the U.S. Army Space and Missile Defense  
Command/Army  Forces  Strategic  Command  (USASMDC/ARSTRAT)  upon  request.  The 
requirements of this clause applies at the TO level.  
 
H15 PUBLIC  RELEASE  OF INFORMATION  
a. In accordance  with DFARS  252.204 -7000,  Disclosure  of Information,  the Subcontractor  shall 
not release to anyone outside the Subcontractor's organization any unclassified information, 
regardless  of medium  (e.g.,  film,  tape,  document),  pertaining  to any part of this Subcontract  or 
any program related to this Subcontract, unless the Subcontractor has written approval or the 
information is otherwise in the public domain before the date of release.  
b. Requests for approval shall identify the specific information to be released, the med ium to be 
used, and the purpose for the release. The contractor shall submit its request to the Quantum 
Contracts  Manager  specified  in the Subcontract/TO,  at least 60 days before  the proposed  date 
for release.  All material  to be cleared  shall  be sent by certified  mail/return  receipt  requested  to: 
Quantum  Research  International,  Inc. 
ATTN: Cynthia Pack  
991 Discovery  Drive  
Huntsville,  AL 35806  
c. The Subcontractor  agrees  to include  a similar  requirement  in each authorized  2nd tier subcontract 
under this Subcontract. Subcontractors shall submit requests for authorization to release 
through the prime contractor.  
 
H16 MINIMUM  INSURANCE  LIABILITY  
SUBCONTRACTOR  IS TO MAINTAIN  SELF -INSURANCE  COVERAGE  
THROUGHOUT  THE DURATION OF THE PERIOD OF CONTRACT PERFORMANCE.  
H17 INDEMNITY  
Subcontractor  will not use any infringing patented or copyrighted material relating to the work, to 
the best of its knowledge.  
 
H18 DISPUTES  
This subcontract  shall  be enforced  and interpreted  by the laws of the state of Alabama.  All claims, 
disputes, or controversies shall be decided as follows:  
a. GOOD  FAITH  NEGOTIATIONS.  If any dispute  arises  under  this agreement  that is not settled 
in the ordinary course of business, the parties shall seek to resolve any such dispute between 
them,  first, by negotiating  promptly  with each other  in good  faith in face-to-face negotiations, 
including elevating to higher levels of management within the respective companies.  If the 
parties  are unable  to resolve  the dispute within 20 business days  (or such period as the parties 
shall otherwise agree) through these face -to-face negotiations, then either party may 
commence legal action in court.   
 b. EXCLUDED CLAUSES.  If the only dispute relates to unpaid fees, costs, or other charges, 
the party owed the money may commence legal action in court for outstanding monies due 
under this Agreement.  
c. BINDING ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION.  Any remaining dispute under this 
Agreement  shall  be resolved  by using  alternative  dispute  resolution  (ADR)  procedures,  which 
can hopefully  avoid  or reduce  the acrimony  resulting  from  adversarial  litigation.  If the efforts 
through  face-to-face negotiations  in the above  paragraph,  above,  are not successful,  the parties 
will initiate  a mini-trial (ADR)  process  with selection  of a neutral  advisor.  The neutral  advisor 
will introduce an impartial opinion approximately 10 business days after completion of the 
mini-trial. Throughout the ADR process, the neutral advisor will provide an element of 
mediation wit h the goal of having the parties resolve the dispute without the issuance of the 
impartial opinion.  However, if agreement is not reached by the parties, the impartial opinion 
rendered  by the neutral  advisor  will be binding  and judgment  upon  that opinion  may be entered 
in any court  having  jurisdiction  thereof.  The parties  may elect  to use an arbitration/mediation 
service  that specializes  in timely  ADR.  All expense,  such as the cost of the neutral  advisor  or 
the hearing facility will be shared equally.  
 
H19 ASSIGNMENTS  
Neither  party  shall  have  the right  to assign  or otherwise  transfer  its rights  or obligations  under  this 
Agreement,  in whole  or in part without  the prior  written  consent  of the other  party,  but such consent 
will not be unreasonably withheld.  
H20 SEVERABILITY  
If any provision of this Subcontract is or becomes void or unenforceable by force or operation of 
law, the other provisions shall remain valid and enforceable.  
H21 FORCE MAJEURE  
Neither Party to this Subcontract shall be considered to be in default of its obligations under this 
Subcontract  to the extent  that failure  to perform  any such obligation  arises  from  causes  beyond  the 
control and without the fault or negligence of the affected party.  
H22 CHOICE  OF LAW  
This Subcontract  shall  be interpreted  in accordance with  the laws of the State  of.Alabama  
H23 LOWER  TIER  SUBCONTRACTING  
Lower Tier Subcontracting is not allowed without the prior written approval of the Contracts 
Manager.  
H24 QUANTUM’S PROPERTY  
a. All drawings, tools, jigs, dies, fixtures, materials, and other property supplied or paid for by 
Quantum shall be and remain the pr operty of Quantum regardless of location.  
b.  All such items shall be used only in the performance of work under this subcontract unless 
Quantum consents otherwise in writing.   
 c.  Goods made in accordance with Quantum’s specifications and drawings shall not be 
furnished or quoted by subcontractor to any other person or concern without Quantum’s prior 
written consent.  
d.  Subcontractor shall have the obligation to maintain any and all p roperty furnished by 
Quantum to Vendor and all property to which Quantum acquires an interest by this 
Subcontract and shall be responsible for all loss or damage to said property except for normal 
wear and tear.  
e.  Upon request, Subcontractor shall provide Q uantum with adequate proof of insurance 
against such risk of loss or damage.  
f.  Subcontractor shall clearly mark, maintain in inventory, and keep segregated or identifiable 
all of Quantum’s property.  
 
 
H25 INFRINGEMENT  
Subcontractor warrants that all goods and services (for purposes of this Section hereinafter “items”), 
provided by Subcontractor pursuant to this Subcontract, which are not of Quantum’s design, shall be 
free from claims of infringement (including misapprop riation) of third party intellectual property 
rights and that any use or sale of such items by Quantum or any of Quantum’s customers  shall  be free 
from  any claims  of infringement.  However,  it is not the intent  of this clause to relinquish any of the 
Subcontractor’s or any third party (Subcontractor’s Subcontractors’) Intellectual Property rights.  
Subcontractor  does not waive any rights or causes of action, and does not agree  to indemnify  or hold 
any person  or party  harmless  from  any claim.  Subcontract or does not waive  and specifically  reserves  
all immunities  to which  it is entitled  by the constitution,  laws,  and statutes  of the  United  States  and 
the State  of Alabama,  including,  without  limitation,  the immunities  contained within  Article  I, 
section14  of the Constitution  of Alabama.  Any claim  against  Subcontractor  must  be made through 
the Alabama State Board of Adjustment. Venue and jurisdiction of any dispute, arising under or 
related to this agreement or relationship of these parties, to the extent not barred by immunity or 
required to be filed before the Alabama State Board of Adjustment, shall lie in the Circuit  Court  of 
Madison  County,  Alabama,  or the Federal  District  Court  for the Northern  District of Alabama, 
Northeastern Division. Any provision of the Agreement which may be considered consent to suit or 
a waiver of immunity by Subcontractor  is hereby rendered null and void.  Subcontractor may replace 
or modify infringing items with comparable items acceptable to Quantum of substantially the same 
form, fit, and function so as to remove the source of infringement, and Subcontractor’s obligations 
under this Subcontract shall apply to the replacement and modified items. If the use or sale of any of 
the above items is enjoined as  a result of such claim, suit or action,  Subcontractor,  at no expense  to 
Quantum,  shall  obtain  for Quantum  and its customers  the right to use and sell said item.  
H26 PROPRIETARY  INFORMATION  
During  the term of the Subcontract,  Quantum  and the Subcontractor  may exchange  such proprietary 
and other information of the disclosing party as is required for each to perform its obligations 
hereunder. Both Quantum and the Subcontractor agree as follows:  
a. To use the proprietary information received from th e other party only for the above purpose, 
to not reproduce,  duplicate,  copy,  distribute,  disclose  or otherwise  disseminate  the proprietary 
information, and to hold in confidence and protect the proprietary information from 
dissemination to and use by anyon e not a party to this Agreement.   
 b. To disclose  the proprietary  information  received  from  the other  party  only to persons  who are 
employees of the receiving party who have a need to know for the above purpose.  
Neither  party  shall  be liable  under  this Agreement  if a disclosure  or use of Proprietary  Information 
received hereunder is made when the Proprietary Information:  
a. was known by the receiving party at the time of disclosure without restriction on its use or 
developed  independently  without  breach  of this Agreement  by the receiving  party's  employees; 
or 
b. was in the public  domain  at the time of the disclosure  or is subsequently  made  available  to the 
general public without restriction by the disclosing party; or  
c. becomes available to the receiving party from a source, other than the disclosing party, who 
has no obligation of secrecy with respect to the proprietary information; or  
d. is disclosed  with the prior  written  approval  of the disclosing  party;  or 
e. is used or disclosed  inadvertently  despite  the exercise  of the same  degree  of care as each party 
takes to preserve and safeguard its own Proprietary Information (each party shall use 
reasonable care for its own Proprietary Information); or  
f. is disclosed by the disclosing party to  a third party without restriction; or 
g. is disclosed  pursuant  to court  order  or subpoena.  
The receiving party shall  not be liable for inadvertent, accidental, unauthorized or mistaken 
disclosure or use by its employees, of data obtained under this Agreement, provided that:  
a. The receiving party shall use the same degree of care as used to protect its own proprietary 
information of a similar nature, and  
b. Upon discovery of such disclosure or use, the receiving party shall prevent further disclosure 
or use and shall notify the other party of any breach of these terms and its procedures to limit 
the breach.  
The protection  of proprietary  data shall  be in effect  for the life of the Subcontract  and an additional 
two (2) years after the completion of the subcontract.  
H27 CERTIFICATIONS,  REPRESENTATIONS,  AND  ACKNOWLEDGMENTS  
All Certifications, Representations, and Acknowledgments provided by the Subcontractor are hereby 
incorporated by reference  into this Subcontract with the same force and effect as if they were included 
in the Subcontract.  
H28 EXPORT  CONTROL  AND  FOREIGN  DISCLOSURE  COMPLIANCE  
a. The Sub contracting work may require Subcontractor’s to support Government projects that 
involve the export of technical data, defense services, hardware and/or technology governed 
by the Arms Export Control Act, International Traffic  in Arms Regulations, Export 
Administration Regulations and all other applicable federal laws, executive orders and 
regulations.  Subcontractor shall be required to comply with all such laws, executive orders 
and regulations  and shall  be required  to furnish  evidence  of compliance  to the Quantum  
Contracts Manager.   
 b. Any potential  disclosure  regarding  defense  articles,  defense  services  and/or  technical  data to a 
foreign source or foreign party under the resultant contracts, the awardees must comply with 
the National  Disclosure  Policy -1 (NDP -1) and National,  DOD  and Army  security  regulations.  
c. The Subcontractor shall include the substance of this clause in all approved 2nd tier 
subcontracts . 
 
H29 SUBCONTRACT  EXCLUSIVITY  
The Subcontractor agrees that when it is being proposed as a Subcontractor with Quantum for a 
specific TO competition, it will not compete on any other D3I D2 team for that TO.  
This restriction does not preclude Subcontractor from being on other D3I D2 prime contractor’s team.  
H30 INTELLECTUAL  PROPERTY  
If the Subcontractor  determines  to use technical  data,  copyrighted,  or patented  items  protected  by 
intellectual property rights in performance and to be delivered to the Government, the Subcontractor 
will notify the Contracts Manger as soon as possible.  
Upon the Prime’s issuance of a Task Order RFP to the Subcontractor, the Subcontractor will review 
and evaluate any requirem ents as may pertain to intellectual property ownership or licensing  and will 
determine  whether  or not it will participate  in the Prime’s  proposal  response.  If the Subcontractor is 
considered key in the Prime’s proposal, the Subcontractor will provide the P rime timely  notification  
upon  determining  that participation  in the proposal  response  is not in its best interest.  
H31 RIGHTS  IN SPECIAL  WORKS  
When the Government and/or Quantum must own or control copyright in all works or portions of 
work first produced, created, or generated under this Subcontract, the Government and/or Quantum 
will invoke DFARS 252.227 -7020, Rights in Special Works. The Subcontractor shall assign 
copyright  in those  works  to the Government  and/or  Quantum  and label  the work  the following  notice: 
“© (Year Date of Delivery) United States Government, as represented by the Secretary of Army. All 
rights reserved.” The Government and/or Quantum  will have unlimited rights in the special works,  
and the Subcontractor  grants  to the Government  and/or  Quantum  licenses  in accordance  with the  
DFARS  clause.  In addition,  the Subcontractor  hereby  relinquishes  any rights  to use or disclose such 
works beyond what is required by the contract.  
H32 TECHNICAL  DATA  RIGHTS  
When the Subcontractor asserts title and rights for technical data under this Subcontract, the 
Government and/or Quantum will invoke DFARS 252.227 -7013 and reach an agreement with the 
Subcontractor on its licensing rights.  
H33 NON  SOLICITATION  OF PERSONNEL  
Neither party will solicit for hire employees of the other party during the term of this contract or for 
a period of one year thereafter without the written consent of the other party.  This does not preclude 
employees of either company from seeking out employment as a result of job fair, job 
announcements, etc.   
 SECTION  I – CLAUSES  INCORPORATED  BY REFERENCE  
In addition to the terms of this Subcontract, the following FAR provisions and DFARS clauses and  
provisions,  shall  apply,  whether  or not required  by the terms  of Quantum’s  prime  contract  or by 
operation of law or regulation.  Rights and obligations granted by Subcontractor shall first run to 
Quantum and then to the Government as applicable; Quantum shall receive rights pursuant to these 
clauses at least in parity to the Government’s rights except as pertains to Intellectual Property or the  
right  to review  or audit  Subcontractor  confidential  or proprietary  records,  in which  case reviews will  
be conducted  only by DCAA,  DCMA  or other  authorized  Government  agency.  Nevertheless, all 
rights and obligations will not exceed those as stated and contained in this Subcontract Agreement.  
In the event  of a conflict  between  the general  terms  and conditions  of this Subcontract, or the FAR 
provisio ns or the DFARS provisions, first the provisions of the DFARS shall control (if  applicable),  
then the FAR  provisions  (if applicable),  then the Subcontract  terms  and conditions. The following 
clauses set forth in the FARS and DFARS in effect as of the date of the prime contract  are 
incorporated  herein  by reference.  Any updates,  additions  or deletions  to the FARS  and DFARS clauses 
in this Subcontract Agreement will be by mutual agreement and modification to this Subcontract 
Agreement. Except as restricte d above, in all clauses listed herein, the terms “Government”, 
“Contracting Officer” and “Contractor” shall be revised to suitably identify the contracting  parties  
under  this Subcontract  Agreement  and effect  the proper  intent  of the provision. “Vendor”, if any, shall 
mean “Subcontractor” under this Subcontract Agreement. The Subcontractor,  by signing  its offer,  
hereby  certifies  compliance  with the following  clauses  and is, therefore, eligible for award.  
 
Regulatory  Cite Title  Date  
52.202 -1 Definitions  NOV  2013  
52.203 -3 Gratuities  APR  1984  
52.203 -5 Covenant  Against  Contingent  Fees MAY  2014  
52.203 -6 Restrictions  on Subcontractor  Sales  to the Government  SEP 2006  
52.203 -7 Anti-Kickback  Procedures  MAY  2014  
52.203 -8 Cancellation,  Rescission,  and Recovery  of Funds  for Illegal  or Improper  MAY  2014  
 Activity   
52.203 -10 Price  or Fee Adjustment  for Illegal  or Improper  Activity  MAY  2014  
52.203 -12 Limitation  on Payments  to Influence  Certain  Federal  Transactions  OCT  2010  
52.203 -13 Contractor  Code  of Business  Ethics  and Conduct  OCT  2015  
52.203 -16 Preventing  Personal  Conflicts  Of Interest  DEC  2011  
52.203 -17 Contractor  Employee  Whistleblower  Rights  and Requirement  to Inform  APR  2014  
 Employees  of Whistleblower  Rights   
52.204 -2 Security  Requirements  AUG  1996  
52.204 -4 Printed  or Copied  Double -Sided  on Recycled  Paper  MAY  2011  
52.204 -7 System  for Award  Management  JUL 2013  
52.204 -9 Personal  Identity  Verification  of Contractor  Personnel  JAN 2011  
52.204 -10 Reporting  Executive  Compensation  and First-Tier Subcontract  Awards  OCT  2015  
52.204 -19 Incorporation  by Reference  Representations  and Certifications  DEC  2014  
52.209 -6 Protecting  the Government's  Interest  When  Subcontracting  with Contractors  OCT  2015  
 Debarred,  Suspended,  or Proposed  for Debarment   
52.209 -9 Updates  of Publicly  Available  Information  Regarding  Responsibility  JUL 2013  
 Matters   
52.209 -10 Prohibition  on Contracting  with Inverted  Domestic  Corporations  DEC  2014  
52.210 -1 Market  Research  APR  2011  
52.211 -5 Material  Requirements  AUG  2000  
52.211 -15 Defense  Priority  And Allocation  Requirements  APR  2008  
52.215 -2 Audit  and Records --Negotiation  OCT  2010  
52.215 -8 Order  of Precedence --Uniform  Contract  Format  OCT  1997   
  
Regulatory  Cite Title  Date  
52.215 -14 Integrity  of Unit Prices  OCT  2009  
52.215 -16 Facilities  Capital  Cost of Money  JUN 2003  
52.215 -17 Waiver  of Facilities  Capital  Cost of Money  OCT  1997  
52.215 -21 Requirement  for Certified  Cost and Pricing  Data  and Data  Other  than OCT  2010  
 
52.215 -23 Certified  Cost Or Pricing  Data --Modifications  
Limitations  on Pass-Through  Charges   
OCT  2009  
52.216 -8 Fixed  Fee JUN 2011  
52.217 -5 Evaluations  of Operations  JUL 1990  
52.219 -6 Notice  of Total  Small  Business  Set-Aside  NOV  2011  
52.219 -8 Utilization  of Small  Business  Concerns  OCT  2014  
52.219 -14 Limitation  on Subcontracting  NOV  2011  
52.219 -27 Notice  of Service  Disabled  Veteran -Owned  Small  Business  Set-Aside  NOV  2011  
52.222 -3 Convict  Labor  JUN 2003  
52.222 -4 Contract  Work  Hours  and Safety  Standards -Overtime  Compensation  MAY  2014  
52.222 -19 Child  Labor  – Cooperation  with Authorities  and Remedies  JAN2016  
52.222 -20 Walsh -Healey  Public  Contracts  Act OCT  2014  
52.222 -21 Prohibition  Of Segregated  Facilities  APR  2015  
52.222 -22 Previous  Contracts  and Compliance  Reports  FEB 1999  
52.222 -26 Equal  Opportunity  APR  2015  
52.222 -29 Notification  Of Visa Denial  APR  2015  
52.222 -35 Equal  Opportunity  For Veterans  OCT  2015  
52.222 -36 Affirmative  Action  For Workers  With  Disabilities  OCT  2010  
52.222 -37 Employment  Reports  On Veterans  OCT  2015  
52.222 -40 Notification  of Employee  Rights  Under  the National  Labor  Relations  Act DEC  2010  
52.222 -41 Service  Contract  labor  Standards  MAY  2014  
52.222 -50 Combatting  Trafficking  in Persons  MAR  2014  
52.222 -54 Employment  Eligibility  Verification  OCT  2015  
52.223 -5 Pollution  Prevention  and Right -to-Know  Information  MAY  2011  
52.223 -6 Drug -Free Workplace  MAY  2001  
52.223 -10 Waste  Reduction  Program  MAY  2011  
52.223 -12 Refrigeration  Equipment  and Air Conditioners  MAY  1995  
52.223 -15 Energy  Efficient  in Energy  Consuming  Products  DEC  2007  
52.223 -18 Encouraging  Contractor  Policies  to Ban Text Messaging  While  Driving  AUG  2011  
52.224 -1 Privacy  Act Notification  APR  1984  
52.224 -2 Privacy  Act APR  1984  
52.225 -13 Restrictions  on Certain  Foreign  Purchases  JUN 2008  
52.227 -1 Alt 1 Authorization  and Consent  (Dec  2007)  – Alternate  I APR  1984  
52.227 -2 Notice  and Assistance  Regarding  Patent  and Copyright  Infringement  DEC  2007  
52.227 -3 Patent Indemnity  APR  1984  
52.227 -6 Royalty  Information  APR1984  
52.227 -10 Filing  of Patent  Applications --Classified  Subject  Matter  DEC  2007  
52.228 -3 Worker's  Compensation  Insurance  (Defense  Base  Act) JUL 2014  
52.228 -5 Insurance  - Work  on a Government  Installation  JAN 1997  
52.228 -7 Insurance  – Liability  to Third  Persons  MAR  1996  
52.229 -1 State  and Local  Taxes  APR  1984  
52.229 -3 Federal,  State  And Local  Taxes  FEB 2013  
52.230 -6 Administration  of Cost Accounting  Standards  JUN 2010  
52.232 -1 Payments  APR  1984  
52.232 -2 Payments  Under  Fixed -Price  Research  and Development  Contracts  APR  1984  
52.232 -8 Discount  For Prompt  Payment  FEB 2002  
52.232 -9 Limitation  On Withholding  OF Payments  APR1984  
52.232 -11 Extras  APR  1984  
52.232 -16 Alt I Progress  Payments  (Apr  2012)  – Alternate  I MAR  2000  
52.232 -17 Interest  MAY  2014  
52.232 -18 Availability  of Funds  APR  1984   
  
Regulatory  Cite Title  Date  
52.232 -20 Limitation  of Cost APR  1984  
52.232 -22 Limitation  of Funds  APR  1984  
52.232 -23 Assignment  of Claims  MAY  2014  
52.232 -25 Prompt  Payment  JUL 2013  
52.232 -33 Payment  by Electronic  Funds  Transfer  – System  for Award  Management  JUL 2013  
52.232 -39 Unenforceability  of Unauthorized  Obligations  JUN2  013 
52.232 -40 Providing  Accelerated  Payments  to Small  Business  Subcontractors  DEC  2013  
52.233 -1 Disputes  (See also H18)  JUL 2002  
52.233 -3 Protest  After  Award  AUG  1996  
52.233 -4 Applicable  Law for Breach  of Contract  Claim  OCT  2004  
52.237 -2 Protection  of Government  Buildings,  Equipment,  And Vegetation  APR  1984  
52.237 -3 Continuity  of Services  JAN 1991  
52.239 -1 Privacy  or Security  Safeguards  AUG  1996  
52.242 -1 Notice  of Intent  to Disallow  Costs  APR  1984  
52.242 -3 Penalties  for Unallowable  Costs  MAY  2014  
52.242 -4 Certification  of Final  Indirect  Costs  JAN 1997  
52.242 -13 Bankruptcy  JUL 1995  
52.242 -15 Stop-Work  Order  AUG  1989  
52.242 -15 Alt I Stop-Work  Order  (Aug  1989)  – Alternate  I APR  1984  
52.243 -1 Changes —Fixed  Price  AUG  1987  
52.243 -1 Alt V Changes --Fixed -Price  (AUG  1987)  - Alternate  V APR  1984  
52.243 -2 Changes —Cost Reimbursement  AUG  1987  
52.243 -2 Alt V Changes —Cost-Reimbursement  (Aug  1987)  – Alternate  V APR  1984  
52.243 -6 Change  Order  Accounting  APR  1984  
52.244 -5 Competition  in Subcontracting  DEC1996  
52.244 -6 Subcontracts  for Commercial  Items  DEC  2015  
52.245 -1 Government  Property  APR  2012  
52.245 -9 Use and Charges  APR  2012  
52.246 -23 Limitation  of Liability  FEB 1997  
52.246 -25 Limitation  of Liability --Services  FEB 1997  
52.247 -63 Preference  for U.S. Flag Air Carriers  JUN 2003  
52.249 -1 Termination  for Convenience  of the Government  (Fixed  Price)  (Short  APR  1984  
 Form)   
52.249 -2 Termination  for Convenience  of the Government  (Fixed -Price)  APR  2012  
52.249 -4 Termination  for Convenience  of the Government  (Services)  (Short  Form)  APR  1984  
52.249 -6 Termination  (Cost -Reimbursement)  MAY  2004  
52.249 -8 Default  (Fixed -Price  Supply  & Service)  APR  1984  
52.249 -9 Default  (Fixed -Priced  Research  and Development)  APR  1984  
52.249 -14 Excusable  Delays  APR  1984  
52.251 -1 Government  Supply  Sources  APR  2012  
52.253 -1 Computer  Generated  Forms  JAN 1991  
252.201 -7000  Contracting  Officer's  Representative  DEC  1991  
252.203 -7000  Requirements  Relating  to Compensation  of Former  DoD  Officials  SEP 2011  
252.203 -7001  Prohibition  On Persons  Convicted  of Fraud  or Other  Defense -Contract - DEC  2008  
 Related  Felonies   
252.203 -7002  Requirement  to Inform  Employees  of Whistleblower  Rights  SEP 2013  
252.203 -7003  Agency  Office  of the Inspector  General  DEC  2012  
252.204 -7000  Disclosure  Of Information  AUG  2013  
252.204 -7002  Payment  for Subline  Items  Not Separately  Priced  DEC  1991  
252.204 -7003  Control  Of Government  Personnel  Work  Product  APR  1992  
252.204 -7005  Oral Attestation  of Security  Responsibilities  NOV  2001  
252.204 -7012  Safeguarding  Covered  Defense  Information  and Cyber  Incident  Reporting  DEC  2015  
252.205 -7000  Provision  Of Information  To Cooperative  Agreement  Holders  DEC  1991  
252.209 -7004  Subcontracting  With  Firms  That Are Owned  or Controlled  By The OCT  2015  
 Government  of a Terrorist  Country   
252.211 -7005  Substitutions  for Military  or Federal  Specifications  and Standards  NOV  2005   
  
Regulatory  Cite Title  Date  
252.211 -7007  Reporting  of Government -Furnished  Property  AUG  2012  
252.211 -7008  Use of Government -Assigned  Serial  Numbers  SEP 2010  
252.219 -7003  Small  Business  Subcontracting  Plan (DOD  Contracts)  OCT  2014  
252.222 -7002  Compliance  with Local  Labor  Laws  (Overseas)  JUN 1997  
252.222 -7006  Restrictions  on the Use of Mandatory  Arbitration  Agreements  DEC  2010  
252.222 -7007  Representation  Regarding  Combating  Trafficking  in Persons  JAN 2015  
252.223 -7002  Safety  Precautions  for Ammunition  and Explosives  MAY  1994  
252.223 -7003  Changes  in Place  of Performance —Ammunition  and Explosives  DEC  1991  
252.223 -7004  Drug  Free Work  Force  SEP 1988  
252.223 -7006  Prohibition  On Storage  And Disposal  Of Toxic  And Hazardous  Materials  SEPT  2014  
252.225 -7001  Buy American  and Balance  of Payments  Program  – Basic  (Nov  2014)  NOV  2014  
252.225 -7002  Qualifying  Country  Sources  As Subcontractors  DEC  2012  
252.225 -7004  Reporting  of Contract  Performance  Outside  the United  States  and Canada -- 
Submission after Award  OCT  2015  
252.225 -7006  Acquisition  of the American  Flag AUG  2015  
252.225 -7008  Restriction  on Acquisition  of Specialty  Metals  MAR  2013  
252.225 -7012  Preference  For Certain  Domestic  Commodities  FEB 2013  
252.225 -7016  Restriction  on Acquisition  of Ball and Roller  Bearings  JUN 2011  
252.225 -7028  Exclusionary  Policies  and Practices  of Foreign  Government  APR  2003  
252.225 -7041  Correspondence  in English  JUN 1997  
252.225 -7042  Authorization  to Perform  APR  2003  
252.225 -7048  Export -Controlled  Items  JUN 2013  
252.226 -7001  Utilization  of Indian  Organizations  and Indian -Owned  Economic  SEP 2004  
 
252.227 -7013  Enterprises,  and Native  Hawaiian  Small  Business  Concerns  
Rights  in Technical  Data --Noncommercial  Items  - Government  means   
FEB 2014  
 
252.227 -7014  Government  
Rights  in Noncommercial  Computer  Software  and Noncommercial   
FEB 2014  
 
252.227 -7015  Computer  Software  Documentation  - Government  means  Government  
Technical  Data --Commercial  Items  - Government  means  Government   
FEB 2014  
252.227 -7016  Rights  in Bid or Proposal  Information  JAN 2011  
252.227 -7017  Identification  and Assertion  of Use, Release,  or Disclosure  Restrictions  JAN 2011  
252.227 -7019  Validation  of Asserted  Restrictions --Computer  Software  SEP 2011  
252.227 -7020  Rights  In Special  Works  JUN 1995  
252.227 -7025  Limitations  on the Use or Disclosure  of Government -Furnished  Information  MAY  2013  
 
252.227 -7026  Marked  with Restrictive  Legends  
Deferred  Delivery  of Technical  Data  or Computer  Software   
APR  1988  
252.227 -7027  Deferred  Ordering  Of Technical  Data  Or Computer  Software  APR  1988  
252.227 -7030  Technical  Data —Withholding  of Payment  MAR  2000  
252.227 -7037  Validation  of Restrictive  Markings  on Technical  Data JUN 2013  
252.227 -7039  Patents —Reporting  Of Subject  Inventions  APR  1990  
252.228 -7001  Ground  and Flight  Risk JUN 2010  
252.228 -7003  Capture  and Detention  DEC  1991  
252.228 -7005  Accident  Reporting  and Investigation  Involving  Aircraft,  Missiles,  and DEC  1991  
 
252.231 -7000  Space  Launch  Vehicles  
Supplemental  Cost Principles   
DEC  1991  
252.232 -7002  Progress  Payments  for Foreign  Military  Sales  Acquisitions  DEC  1991  
252.232 -7004  DOD  Progress  Payments  Rates  OCT  2014  
252.232 -7008  Assignment  of Claims  (Overseas)  JUN 1997  
252.232 -7010  Levies  on Contract  Payments  DEC  2006  
252.233 -7001  Choice  of Law (Overseas)  JUN 1997  
252.235 -7003  Frequency  Authorization  MAR  2014  
252.235 -7011  Final  Scientific  or Technical  Report  JAN 2015  
252.239 -7000  Protection  Against  Compromising  Information  JUN 2004  
252.239 -7001  Information  Assurance  Contractor  Training  and Certification  JAN 2008  
252.242 -7004  Material  Management  and Accounting  System  MAY  2011   
  
Regulatory  Cite  Title  Date  
252.242 -7005  Contractor  Business  Systems   FEB 2012  
252.242 -7006   Accounting  System  Administration  FEB 2012  
252.243 -7001   Pricing  Of Contract  Modifications  DEC  1991  
252.243 -7002   Requests  for Equitable  Adjustment  DEC  2012  
252.244 -7000  
 
252.244 -7001   Subcontracts  for Commercial  Items  and Commercial  Components  (DoD 
Contracts)  
Contractor  Purchasing  System  Administration  DEC  2012  
 
MAY  2014  
252.245 -7001   Tagging,  Labeling,  and Marking  of Government -Furnished  Property  APR  2012  
252.245 -7002   Reporting  Loss  of Government  Property  APR  2012  
252.245 -7003   Contractor  Property  Management  System  Administration  APR  2012  
252.245 -7004   Reporting,  Reutilization,  and Disposal  MAR  2015  
252.246 -7001   Warranty  of Data MAR  2014  
252.246 -7004   Safety  of Facilities,  Infrastructure,  and Equipment  for Military  Operations  OCT  2010  
252.246 -7005   Notice  of Warranty  Tracking  of Serialized  Items  JUN2011  
252.247 -7023   Transportation  of Supplies  by Sea APR  2014  
252.247 -7023  Alt I Transportation  of Supplies  by Sea (APR  2014)  Alternate  I APR  2014  
252.247 -7023  Alt II Transportation  of Supplies  by Sea (APR  2014)  Alternate  II APR  2014  
252.247 -7024   Notification  of Transportation  of Supplies  by Sea MAR  2000  
 
 
 
CLAUSES  INCORPORATED  BY FULL  TEXT  
 
52.216 -7 ALLOWABLE  COST  AND  PAYMENT  (JUN  2013)  
 
(a) Invoicing.  
 
(1) The Government  will make  payments  to the Contractor  when  requested  as work  progresses,  but (except  for small 
business concerns) not more often than once every 2 weeks, in amounts determined to be allowable by the 
Contracting Officer in accordance with Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) subpart 31.2 in effect on the date of 
this contract and the terms of this co ntract. The Contractor may submit to an authorized representative of the 
Contracting Officer, in such form and reasonable detail as the representative may require, an invoice or voucher 
supported by a statement of the claimed allowable cost for performing this contract.  
 
(2) Contract financing payments are not subject to the interest penalty provisions of the Prompt Payment Act. Interim  
payments  made  prior  to the final payment  under  the contract  are contract  financing  payments,  except  interim 
payments if this contract contains Alternate I to the clause at 52.232 -25. 
 
(3) The designated payment office will make interim payments for contract financing on the 30th (Contracting 
Officer  insert  day as prescribed  by agency  head;  if not prescribed,  insert  “30th”)  day after the designated  billing 
office receives a proper payment request.  
 
In the event that the Government requires an audit or other review of a specific payment request to ensure compliance  
with the terms  and conditions  of the contract,  the designated  payment  office  is not compelled  to make payment by the 
specified due date.  
 
(b) Reimbursing  costs.  (1) For the purpose  of reimbursing  allowable  costs  (except  as provided  in subparagraph 
(b)(2) of the clause, with respect to pension, deferred profit sharing, and employee stock ownership plan 
contributions), the term "costs" includes only -- 
 
(i) Those  recorded  costs  that, at the time of the request  for reimbursement,  the Contractor  has paid by cash,  check,  or 
other form of actual payment for items o r services purchased directly for the contract;  
 
(ii) When  the Contractor  is not delinquent  in paying  costs  of contract  performance  in the ordinary  course  of 
business, costs incurred, but not necessarily paid, for --  
 (A) Supplies  and services  purchased  directly  for the contract  and associated  financing  payments  to subcontractors, 
provided payments determined due will be made -- 
 
(1) In accordance  with the terms  and conditions  of a subcontract  or invoice;  and 
 
(2) Ordinarily  within  30 days of the submission  of the Contractor's  payment  request  to the Government;  
 
(B) Materials  issued  from  the Contractor's  inventory  and placed  in the production  process  for use on the contract;  
 
(C) Direct  labor;  
 
(D) Direct  travel;  
 
(E) Other  direct  in-house  costs;  and 
 
(F) Properly  allocable  and allowable  indirect  costs,  as shown  in the records  maintained  by the Contractor  for 
purposes of obtaining reimbursement under Government contracts; and  
 
(iii) The amount  of financing  payments  that have  been  paid by cash,  check,  or other  forms  of payment  to 
subcontractors.  
 
(2) Accrued  costs  of Contractor  contributions  under  employee  pension  plans  shall  be excluded  until actually  paid 
unless -- 
 
(i) The Contractor's  practice  is to make  contributions  to the retirement  fund quarterly  or more  frequently;  and 
 
(ii) The contribution  does not remain  unpaid  30 days after the end of the applicable  quarter  or shorter  payment 
period (any contribution remaining unpaid shall be excluded from the Contractor's indirect costs for payment 
purposes).  
 
(3) Notwithstanding  the audit  and adjustment  of invoices  or vouchers  under  paragraph  (g) of this clause,  allowable 
indirect costs u nder this contract shall be obtained by applying indirect cost rates established in accordance with 
paragraph (d) of this clause.  
 
(4) Any statements in specifications or other documents incorporated in this contract by reference designating 
performance  of services  or furnishing  of materials  at the Contractor's  expense  or at no cost to the Government  shall 
be disregarded for purposes of cost -reimbursement under this clause.  
 
(c) Small  business  concerns.  A small  business  concern  may receive  more  frequent  payments  than every  2 weeks.  
 
(d) Final indirect cost rates. (1) Final annual indirect cost rates and the appropriate bases shall be established in 
accordance  with Subpart  42.7 of the Federal  Acquisition  Regulation  (FAR)  in effect  for the period  covered  by the 
indirect cost rate proposal.  
 
(2)(i) The Contractor shall submit an adequate final indirect cost rate proposal to the Contracting Officer (or cognizant  
Federal  agency  official)  and auditor  within  the 6-month  period  following  the expiration  of each of its fiscal years. 
Reasonable extensions, for exceptional circumstances only, may be requested in writing by the Contractor and granted 
in writing by the Contracting Officer. The Contractor shall support its proposal with adequate supporting data.  
 
(ii) The prop osed rates shall be based on the Contractor's actual cost experience for that period. The appropriate 
Government  representative  and the Contractor  shall  establish  the final indirect  cost rates  as promptly  as practical 
after receipt of the Contractor's proposal.  
 
(iii) An adequate  indirect  cost rate proposal  shall  include  the following  data unless  otherwise  specified  by the 
cognizant Federal agency official:   
 (A) Summary  of all claimed  indirect  expense  rates,  including  pool,  base,  and calculated  indirect  rate. 
 
(B) General  and Administrative  expenses  (final  indirect  cost pool).  Schedule  of claimed  expenses  by element  of cost as 
identified in accounting records (Chart of Accounts).  
 
(C) Overhead  expenses  (final  indirect  cost pool).  Schedule  of claimed  expenses  by element  of cost as identified  in 
accounting records (Chart of Accounts) for each final indirect cost pool.  
 
(D) Occupancy  expenses  (intermediate  indirect  cost pool).  Schedule  of claimed  expenses  by element  of cost as 
identified in accounting records (Chart of Accounts) and expense reallocation to final indirect cost pools.  
 
(E) Claimed  allocation  bases,  by element  of cost, used to distribute  indirect  costs.  
 
(F) Facilities  capital  cost of money  factors  computation.  
 
(G) Reconciliation  of books  of account  (i.e., General  Ledger)  and claimed  direct  costs  by major  cost element.  
 
(H) Schedule  of direct  costs  by contract  and subcontract  and indirect  expense  applied  at claimed  rates,  as well as a 
subsidiary schedule of Government participation percentages in each of the allocation base amounts.  
 
(I) Schedule  of cumulative  direct  and indirect  costs  claimed  and billed  by contract  and subcontract.  
 
(J) Subcontract  information.  Listing  of subcontracts  awarded  to companies  for which  the contractor  is the prime  or 
upper -tier contractor (include prime and subcontract numbers; subcontract value and award type; amount claimed 
during the fiscal year; and the subcontractor name, address, and point of contact information).  
 
(K) Summary  of each time-and-materials  and labor -hour contract  information,  including  labor  categories,  labor 
rates, hours, and amounts; direct materials; other direct costs; and, indirect expense applied at claimed rates.  
 
(L) Reconciliation  of total payroll  per IRS form  941 to total labor  costs  distribution.  
 
(M) Listing  of decisions/agreements/approvals  and description  of accounting/organizational  changes.  
 
(N) Certificate  of final indirect  costs  (see 52.242 -4, 
Certification of Final Indirect Costs).  
 
(O) Contract  closing  information  for contracts  physically  completed  in this fiscal  year (include  contract  number, 
period of performance, contract ceiling amounts, contract fee computations, level of effort, and indicate if the 
contract is ready to close).  
 
(iv) The following  supplemental  information  is not required  to determine  if a proposal  is adequate,  but may be 
required during the audit process:  
 
(A) Comparative  analysis  of indirect  expense  pools  detailed  by account  to prior  fiscal  year and budgetary  data. 
 
(B) General  organizational  information  and limitation  on allowability  of compensation  for certain  contractor 
personnel. See 31.205 -6(p). Additional salary reference information is available at 
http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/procurement_index_exec_comp/.  
 
(C) Identification  of prime  contracts  under  which  the contractor  performs  as a subcontractor.  
 
(D) Description of accounting system (excludes contractors required to submit a CAS Disclosure Statement or 
contractors  where  the description  of the accounting  system  has not changed  from  the previous  year's  submission).  
 
(E) Procedures  for identifying  and excluding  unallowable  costs  from  the costs  claimed  and billed  (excludes 
contractors where the procedures have not changed from the previous year's submission).  
(F) Certified  financial  statements  and other  financial  data (e.g.,  trial balance,  compilation,  review,  etc.).   
 (G) Management  letter  from  outside  CPAs  concerning  any internal  control  weaknesses.  
 
(H) Actions  that have  been  and/or  will be implemented  to correct  the weaknesses  described  in the management  letter 
from subparagraph G) of this section.  
 
(I) List of all internal  audit  reports  issued  since  the last disclosure  of internal  audit  reports  to the Government.  
 
(J) Annual  internal  audit  plan of scheduled  audits  to be performed  in the fiscal  year when  the final indirect  cost rate 
submission is made.  
 
(K) Federal  and State  income  tax returns.  
 
(L) Securities  and Exchange  Commission  10-K annual  report.  
 
(M) Minutes  from  board  of directors  meetings.  
 
(N) Listing  of delay  claims  and termination  claims  submitted  which  contain  costs  relating  to the subject  fiscal  year.  
 
(O) Contract  briefings,  which  generally  include  a synopsis  of all pertinent  contract  provisions,  such as: Contract 
type, contract amount, product  or service(s) to be provided, contract performance period, rate ceilings, advance 
approval requirements, pre -contract cost allowability limitations, and billing limitations.  
 
(v) The Contractor  shall  update  the billings  on all contracts  to reflect  the final settled  rates  and update  the schedule of 
cumulative direct and indirect costs claimed and billed, as required in paragraph (d)(2)(iii)(I) of this section, 
within 60 days after settlement of final indirect cost rates.  
 
(3) The Contractor and the appropriate Gove rnment representative shall execute a written understanding setting forth  
the final indirect  cost rates.  The understanding  shall  specify  (i) the agreed -upon  final annual  indirect  cost rates,  
(ii) the bases  to which  the rates  apply,  (iii) the periods  for which  the rates  apply,  (iv) any specific  indirect  cost items 
treated as direct costs in the settlement, and (v) the affected contract and/or subcontract, identifying any with advance 
agreements or special terms and the applicable rates. The understanding shall not change any monetary ceiling, 
contract obligation, or specific cost allowance or disallowance provided for in this contract. The understanding is 
incorporated into this contract upon execution.  
 
(4) Failure  by the parties  to agree  on a final annual  indirect  cost rate shall  be a dispute  within  the meaning  of the 
Disputes clause.  
 
(5) Within  120 days (or longer  period  if approved  in writing  by the Contracting  Officer)  after settlement  of the final 
annual indirect cost rates for all years of a physically complete contract, the Contractor shall submit a completion 
invoice or voucher to reflect the settled amounts and rates. The completion invoice or voucher shall include settled 
subcontract amounts and rates. The prime contractor is responsible f or settling subcontractor amounts and rates 
included  in the completion  invoice  or voucher  and providing  status  of subcontractor  audits  to the contracting  officer 
upon request.  
 
(6)(i)  If the Contractor  fails to submit  a completion  invoice  or voucher  within  the time specified  in paragraph  (d)(5) of 
this clause, the Contracting Officer may -- 
 
(A) Determine  the amounts  due to the Contractor  under  the contract;  and 
 
(B) Record  this determination  in a unilateral  modification  to the contract.  
 
(ii) This determination  constitutes  the final decision  of the Contracting  Officer  in accordance  with the Disputes clause.  
(e) Billing  rates.  Until  final annual  indirect  cost rates  are established  for any period,  the Government  shall  reimburse the 
Contractor at billing rates established by the Contracting Officer or by an authorized representative (the cognizant 
auditor), subject to adjustment when the final rates are established. These billing rates --  
 (1) Shall  be the anticipated  final rates;  and 
 
(2) May be prospectively  or retroactively  revised  by mutual  agreement,  at either  party's  request,  to prevent 
substantial overpayment or underpayment.  
 
(f) Quick -closeout  procedures.  Quick -closeout  procedures  are applicable  when  the conditions  in FAR  42.708(a)  are 
satisfied.  
 
(g) Audit.  At any time or times  before  final payment,  the Contracting  Officer  may have  the Contractor's  invoices  or 
vouchers and statements of cost audited. Any payment may be (1) Reduced by amounts found by the Contracting 
Officer not to constitute allowable costs or (2) Adjusted for prior overpayments or underpayments.  
 
(h) Final  payment.  (1) Upon  approval  of a completion  invoice  or voucher  submitted  by the Contractor  in accordance 
with paragraph (d)(5) of this clause, and upon  the Contractor's compliance with all terms of this contract, the 
Government shall promptly pay any balance of allowable costs and that part of the fee (if any) not previously paid.  
 
(2) The Contractor  shall  pay to the Government  any refunds,  rebates,  credits,  or other  amounts  (including  interest,  if 
any) accruing to or received by the Contractor or any assignee under this contract, to the extent that those amounts are 
properly allocable to costs for which the Contractor has been reimbursed by the Government. Reasonable expenses 
incurred by the Contractor for securing refunds, rebates, credits, or other amounts shall be allowable costs if approved 
by the Contracting Officer. Before final payment under this contract, the Contractor and each assig nee whose 
assignment is in effect at the time of final payment shall execute and deliver -- 
 
(i) An assignment to the Government, in form and substance satisfactory to the Contracting Officer, of refunds, 
rebates,  credits,  or other  amounts  (including  interest,  if any) properly  allocable  to costs  for which  the Contractor  has 
been reimbursed by the Government under this contract; and  
 
(ii) A release  discharging  the Government,  its officers,  agents,  and employees  from  all liabilities,  obligations,  and 
claims arising out of or under this contract, except -- 
 
(A) Specified  claims  stated  in exact  amounts,  or in estimated  amounts  when  the exact  amounts  are not known;  
 
(B) Claims  (including  reasonable  incidental  expenses)  based  upon  liabilities  of the Contractor  to third  parties  arising out 
of the performance of this contract; provided, that the claims are not known to the Contractor on the date of the 
execution of the release, and that the Contractor gives notice of the claims in writing to the Contrac ting Officer 
within 6 years following the release date or notice of final payment date, whichever is earlier; and  
 
(C) Claims  for reimbursement  of costs,  including  reasonable  incidental  expenses,  incurred  by the Contractor  under the  
patent  clauses  of this contract,  excluding,  however,  any expenses  arising  from  the Contractor's  indemnification of 
the Government against patent liability.  
 
(End  of clause)  
 
 
52.216 -10 INCENTIVE  FEE (JUN  2011)  
 
(a) General.  The Government  shall  pay the Contractor  for performing  this contract  a fee determined  as provided  in 
this contract.  
 
(b) Target  cost and target  fee. The target  cost and target  fee specified  in the Schedule  are subject  to adjustment  if the 
contract is modified in accordance with paragraph (d) below.  
(1) "Target  cost,"  as used in this contract,  means  the estimated  cost of this contract  as initially  negotiated,  adjusted  in 
accordance with paragraph (d) below.   
 (2) "Target fee," as used in this contract, means the fee initially negotiated on the assumption that this contract would  
be performed  for a cost equal  to the estimated  cost initially  negotiated,  adjusted  in accordance  with paragraph  
 
(d) below.  
 
(c) Withholding  of payment.  
 
(1) Normally, the Government shall pay the fee to the Contractor as specified in the Schedule. However, when the 
Contracting Officer considers that performance or cost indicates that the Contractor will not achieve target, the 
Government shall pay on the basis  of an appropriate lesser fee.  When the Contractor demonstrates that performance 
or cost clearly  indicates  that the Contractor  will earn a fee significantly  above  the target  fee, the Government  may,  at 
the sole discretion of the Contracting Officer, pay on the basis of an appropriate higher fee.  
 
(2) Payment of the incentive fee shall be made as specified in the Schedule; provided that the Contracting Officer 
withholds a reserve not to exceed 15 percent o f the total incentive fee or $100,000, whichever is less, to protect the 
Government's  interest.  The Contracting  Officer  shall  release  75 percent  of all fee withholds  under  this contract  after 
receipt of an adequate certified final indirect cost rate proposal covering the year of physical completion of this 
contract, provided the Contractor has satisfied all other contract terms and conditions, including the submission of 
the final patent and royalty reports, and is not delinquent in submitting final v ouchers on prior years' settlements. 
The Contracting Officer may release up to 90 percent of the fee withholds under this contract based on the 
Contractor's past performance related to the submission and settlement of final indirect cost rate proposals.  
 
(d) Equitable  adjustments.  When  the work  under  this contract  is increased  or decreased  by a modification  to this 
contract or when any equitable adjustment in the target cost is authorized under any other clause, equitable 
adjustments in the target cost, target fee, minimum fee, and maximum fee, as appropriate, shall be stated in a 
supplemental agreement to this contract.  
 
(e) Fee payable. (1) The fee  payable under this contract shall be the  target fee increased by  to be negotiated at the 
task order  level  (when  applicable) cents  for every  dollar  that the total allowable  cost is less than the target  cost or 
decreased by to be negotiated at the task order level (when applicable) cents for every dollar that the total 
allowable cost exceeds the target cost. In no eve nt shall the fee be greater than to be negotiated at the task order 
level  (when  applicable)  less than to be negotiated  at the task order  level  (when  applicable)  percent  of the target 
cost. 
 
(2) The fee shall be subject to adjustment, to the extent provided in paragraph (d) above, and within the minimum and  
maximum  fee limitations  in subparagraph  (1) above,  when  the total allowable  cost is increased  or decreased  as a 
consequence of (i) payments made under assignments or (ii) claims excepted from the release as required by 
paragraph (h)(2) of the Allowable Cost and Payment clause.  
 
(3) If this contract  is terminated  in its entirety,  the portion  of the target  fee payable  shall  not be subject  to an increase or 
decrease as provided in this paragraph. The termination shall be accomplished in accordance with other  applicable 
clauses of this contract.  
 
(4) For the purpose  of fee adjustment,  "total  allowable  cost"  shall  not include  allowable  costs  arising  out of-- 
 
(i) Any of the causes  covered  by the Excusable  Delays  clause  to the extent  that they are beyond  the control  and 
without the fault or negligence of the Contractor or any subcontractor;  
 
(ii) The taking  effect,  after negotiating  the target  cost, of a statute,  court  decision,  written  ruling,  or regulation  that 
results in the Contractor's being required to pay or bear the burden of any tax or duty or rate increase in a tax or 
duty;  
 
(iii) Any direct cost attributed to the Contractor's involvement in litigation as required by the Contracting O fficer 
pursuant  to a clause  of this contract,  including  furnishing  evidence  and information  requested  pursuant  to the Notice 
and Assistance Regarding Patent and Copyright Infringement clause;   
 (iv) The purchase  and maintenance  of additional  insurance  not in the target  cost and required  by the Contracting 
Officer, or claims for reimbursement for liabilities to third persons pursuant to the Insurance Liability to Third 
Persons clause;  
 
(v) Any claim,  loss, or damage  resulting  from  a risk for which  the Contractor  has been  relieved  of liability  by the 
Government Property clause; or  
 
(vi) Any claim,  loss, or damage  resulting  from  a risk defined  in the contract  as unusually  hazardous  or as a nuclear 
risk and against which the Government has expressly agreed to indemnify the Contractor.  
 
(5) All other  allowable  costs  are included  in "total  allowable  cost"  for fee adjustment  in accordance  with this 
paragraph (e), unless otherwise specifically provided in this contract.  
 
(f) Contract  modification.  The total allowable  cost and the adjusted  fee determined  as provided  in this clause  shall  be 
evidenced by a modification to this contract signed by the Contractor and Contracting Officer.  
 
(g) Inconsistencies.  In the event  of any language  inconsistencies  between  this clause  and provisioning  documents  or 
Government options under this contract, compensation for spare parts or other supplies and services ordered under 
such documents shall be determined in accordance with this clause.  
 
(End  of clause)  
 
 
 
52.216 -16 INCENTIVE  PRICE  REVISION --FIRM  TARGET  (OCT  1997)  
 
(a) General. The supplies or services identified in the Schedule as Items to be negotiated at the task order level (when 
applicable) ] are subject to price revision in accordance with this clause; provided, that in no event shall the total 
final price of these items exceed the ceiling price of to be negotiated at the task order level (when applicable) 
dollars ($to be negotiated at the t ask order level (when applicable) . Any supplies or services that are to  be (1) 
ordered  separately  under,  or otherwise  added  to, this contract  and (2) subject  to price  revision  in accordance with the 
terms of this clause shall be identified as such in a modification to this contract (b) Definition. "Costs," as used in 
this clause, means allowable costs in accordance with Part 31 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR)  in effect 
on the date of this contract.  
 
(c) Data submission. (1) Within to be negotiate d at the task order level (when applicable) [Contracting Officer 
insert  number  of days]  days after the end of the month  in which  the Contractor  has delivered  the last unit of supplies 
and completed the services specified by item number in paragraph (a) of this clause, the Contractor shall submit in 
the format of Table 15 -2, FAR 15.408, or in any other form on which the parties agree -- 
 
(i) A detailed  statement  of all costs  incurred  up to the end of that month  in performing  all work  under  the items;  
 
(ii) An estimate  of costs  of further  performance,  if any, that may be necessary  to complete  performance  of all work 
under the items;  
 
(iii) A list of all residual  inventory  and an estimate  of its value;  and 
 
(iv) Any other  relevant  data that the Contracting  Officer  may reasonably  require.  
 
(2) If the Contractor fails to submit the data required by subparagraph (1) above within the time specified and it is 
later determined that the Government has overpaid the Contractor, the Contractor shall repay the excess to the 
Government  immediately.  Unless  repaid  within  30 days after the end of the data submittal  period,  the amount  of the 
excess  shall  bear interest,  computed  from  the date the data were  due to the date of repayment,  at the rate established in 
accordance with the Interest clause.   
 (d) Price revision. Upon the Contracting Officer's receipt of the data required by paragraph (c) above, the 
Contracting  Officer  and the Contractor  shall  promptly  establish  the total final price  of the items  specified  in (a) 
above by applying to final negotiated cost an adjustment for profit or loss, as follows:  
 
(1) On the basis of the information required by paragraph (c) above, together with any other pertinent information, the  
parties  shall  negotiate  the total final cost incurred  or to be incurred  for supplies  delivered  (or services  performed) and 
accepted by the Government and which are subject to price revision under this clause.  
 
(2) The total final price  shall  be established  by applying  to the total final negotiated  cost an adjustment  for profit  or 
loss, as follows:  
 
(i) If the total final negotiated  cost is equal  to the total target  cost, the adjustment  is the total target  profit.  
 
(ii) If the total final negotiated  cost is greater  than the total target  cost, the adjustment  is the total target  profit,  less to 
be negotiated at the  task order level (when applicable)  [Contracting  Officer  insert  percent]  percent  of the amount 
by which the total final negotiated cost exceeds the total target cost.  
 
(iii) If the final negotiated cost is less than the total target cost, the adjustment is the total target profit plus to be 
negotiated  at the task order  level  (when  applicable) . [Contracting  Officer  insert  percent]  percent  of the amount  by 
which the total final negotiated cost is less than the total target cost.  
 
(e) Contract  modification.  The total final  price  of the items  specified in paragraph (a) above shall be  evidenced by a 
modification  to this contract,  signed  by the Contractor  and the Contracting  Officer.  This price  shall  not be subject  to 
revision, notwithstanding any changes in the cost of performing the contract, except to the extent that -- 
 
(1) The parties  may agree  in writing,  before  the determination  of total final price,  to exclude  specific  elements  of 
cost from this price and to a procedure for subsequent disposition of those elements; and  
 
(2) Adjustments  or credits  are explicitly  permitted  or required  by this or any other  clause  in this contract.  
 
(f) Adjusting billing prices. (1) Pending execution of the contract modification (see paragraph (e) above), the 
Contractor  shall  submit  invoices  or vouchers  in accordance  with billing  prices  as provided  in this paragraph.  The 
billing prices shall be the target prices shown in this contract.  
 
(2) If at any time it appears from information provided by the contractor under subparagraph (g)(2) below that the 
then-current billing prices will be substantially greater than the estimated final prices, the parties shall nego tiate a 
reduction in the billing prices. Similarly, the parties may negotiate an increase in billing prices by any or all of the 
difference  between  the target  prices  and the ceiling  price,  upon  the Contractor's  submission  of factual  data showing 
that final  cost under this contract will be substantially greater than the target cost.  
 
(3) Any billing  price  adjustment  shall  be reflected  in a contract  modification  and shall  not affect  the determination  of the 
total final price under paragraph (d) above. After the contract modification establishing the total final price is 
executed, the total amount paid or to be paid on all invoices or vouchers shall be adjusted to reflect the total final 
price, and any resulting additional payments, refunds, or credits shall b e made promptly.  
 
(g) Quarterly  limitation  on payments  statement.  This paragraph  (g) shall  apply  until final price  revision  under  this 
contract has been completed.  
 
(1) Within 45 days after the end of each quarter of the Contractor's fiscal year in which a delivery is first made (or 
services  are first performed)  and accepted  by the Government  under  this contract,  and for each quarter  thereafter,  the 
Contractor shall submit to the contract administration office (with a copy to the contracting office and the c ognizant 
contract auditor) a statement, cumulative from the beginning of the contract, showing -- 
 
(i) The total contract  price  of all supplies  delivered  (or services  performed)  and accepted  by the Government  and for 
which final prices have been established;   
 (ii) The total costs (estimated to the extent necessary) reasonably incurred for, and properly allocable solely to, the 
supplies  delivered  (or services  performed)  and accepted  by the Government  and for which  final prices  have  not been 
established;  
 
(iii) The portion  of the total target  profit  (used  in establishing  the initial  contract  price  or agreed  to for the purpose  of 
this paragraph (g)) that is in direct proportion to the supplies delivered (or services performed) and accepted by the 
Government and for which final prices have not been established --increased or decreased in accordance with 
subparagraph (d)(2) above, when the amount stated under subdivision (ii), immediately above, differs from the 
aggregate target costs of the supplies or services; and  
 
(iv) The total amount  of all invoices  or vouchers  for supplies  delivered  (or services  performed)  and accepted  by the 
Government (including amounts applied or to be applied to liquidate progress payments).  
 
(2) Notwithstanding any provision of this contract authorizing greater payments, if on any quarterly statement the 
amount under subdivision (1)(iv) above exceeds the sum due the Contractor, as computed in accordance with 
subdivis ions (1)(i), (ii), and (iii) above, the Contractor shall immediately refund or credit to the Government the 
amount of this excess. The Contractor may, when appropriate, reduce this refund or credit by the amount of any 
applicable tax credits due the Contra ctor under 26 U.S.C. 1481 and by the amount of previous refunds or credits 
effected  under  this clause.  If any portion  of the excess  has been  applied  to the liquidation  of progress  payments,  then 
that portion may, instead of being refunded, be added to the unliquidated progress payment account consistent with 
the Progress Payments clause. The Contractor shall provide complete details to support any claimed reductions in 
refunds.  
 
(3) If the Contractor  fails to submit  the quarterly  statement  within  45 days after the end of each quarter  and it is later 
determined that the Government has overpaid the Contractor, the Contractor shall repay the excess to the 
Government immediately. Unless repaid within 30 days after the end of the statement submittal period, the  amount 
of the excess  shall  bear interest,  computed  from  the date the quarterly  statement  was due to the date of repayment,  at 
the rate established in accordance with the Interest clause.  
 
(h) Subcontracts.  No subcontract  placed  under  this contract  may provide  for payment  on a cost-plus-a-percentage - of-
cost basis. The Contractor shall -- 
 
(1) Insert  in each price  redetermination  or incentive  price  revision  subcontract  the substance  of paragraph  (g), above, 
and of this paragraph (h), modified to omit mention of the Government and to reflect the position of the Contractor 
as purchaser and of the subcontractor as vendor, and to omit that part of subparagraph (g)(2) above relating to tax 
credits; and  
 
(2) Include in each cost -reimbursement subcontract a requi rement that each lower -tier price redetermination or 
incentive  price  revision  subcontract  contain  the substance  of paragraph  (g) above  and of this paragraph  (h), modified 
as required by subparagraph (1) above.  
 
(i) Disagreements. If the Contractor and the Cont racting Officer fail to agree upon the total final price within 60 
days (or within  such other  period  as the Contracting  Officer  may specify)  after the date on which  the data required 
by paragraph (c) above are to be submitted, the Contracting Officer shall promptly issue a decision in accordance 
with the Disputes clause.  
 
(j) Termination. If this contract is terminated before the total final price is established, prices of supplies or services 
subject to price revision shall be established in accor dance with this clause for (1) completed supplies and services 
accepted  by the Government  and (2) those supplies  and services  not terminated  under  a partial  termination.  All other 
elements of the termination shall be resolved in accordance with other applicable clauses of this contract.  
 
(k) Equitable adjustment under other clauses. If an equitable adjustment in the contract price is made under any other  
clause  of this contract  before  the total final price  is established,  the adjustment  shall  be made  in the total target cost 
and may be made in the maximum dollar limit on the total final price, the total target profit, or both. If the 
adjustment is made after the total final price is established, only the total final price shall be adjusted.   
 (l) Exclusion  from  target  price  and total final price.  If any clause  of this contract  provides  that the contract  price  does 
not or will not include an amount for a specific purpose, then neither any target price nor the total final price  
includes or will include any amount for that purpose.  
 
(m) Separate reimbursement. If any clause of this contract expressly provides that the cost of performance of an 
obligation  shall  be at Government  expense  that expense  shall  not be included  in any target  price  or in the total final 
price, but shall be reimbursed separately.  
 
(n) Taxes.  As used in the Federal,  State,  and Local  Taxes  clause  or in any other  clause  that provides  for certain  taxes or 
duties to be included in, or excluded from, the contract price, the term "contract price'' includes the total target price 
or, if it has been established, the total final price. When any of these clauses requires that the contract price be 
increased or decreased as a result of changes in the obligation of the Contractor to pay or bear the burden of certain 
taxes or duties, the increase or decrease shall be made in the total target price or, if it has been established, in the 
total final price, so that it will not affect the Contractor's profit or loss on this contract.  
 
(End  of Clause)  
 
 
52.216 -18 ORDERING.  (OCT  1995)  
 
(a) Any supplies and services to be furnished under this contract shall be ordered by issuance of delivery orders or task 
orders by the individuals or activities designated in the Schedule. Such orders may be issued from date of contract  
award  through  108 months  from  date of contract  award  if all optional  ordering  periods  are exercised.  
 
(b) All delivery  orders  or task orders  are subject  to the terms  and conditions  of this contract.  In the event  of conflict 
between a delivery order or task order and this contract, the contract shall control.  
 
(c) If mailed,  a delivery  order  or task order  is considered  "issued"  when  the Government  deposits  the order  in the 
mail. Orders may be issued orally, by facsimile, or by electronic commerce methods only if authorized in t he 
Schedule.  
 
(End  of clause)  
 
 
 
52.216 -19 ORDER  LIMITATIONS.  (OCT  1995)  
 
(a) Minimum order. When the Government requires supplies or services covered by this contract in an amount of less  
than $3,000  (insert  dollar  figure  or quantity),  the Government  is not obligated  to purchase,  nor is the Contractor 
obligated to furnish, those supplies or services under the contract.  
 
(b) Maximum  order.  The Contractor  is not obligated  to honor:  
 
(1) Any order  for a single  item in excess  of $504,000,000.00 ; 
 
(2) Any order  for a combination  of items  in excess  of $504,000,000.00  (insert  dollar  figure  or quantity);  or 
 
(3) A series  of orders  from  the same  ordering  office  within  1 day that together  call for quantities  exceeding  the 
limitation in subparagraph (1) or (2) above.  
 
(c) If this is a requirements  contract  (i.e., includes  the Requirements  clause  at subsection  52.216 -21 of the Federal 
Acquisition Regulation (FAR)), the Government is not required to order a part of any one requirement from the 
Contractor if that requirement exceeds the maximum -order limitations in paragraph (b) above.   
 (d) Notwithstanding paragraphs (b) and (c) above, the Contractor shall honor any order exceeding the maximum order 
limitations in paragraph (b), unless that order (or orders) is returned to the ordering office within 1 day after 
issuance,  with written  notice  stating  the Contractor's  intent  not to ship the item (or items)  called  for and the reasons. 
Upon receiving this notice, the Government may acquire the supplies or services from another source.  
 
(End  of clause)  
 
 
 
52.216 -22 INDEFINITE  QUANTITY.  (OCT  1995)  
 
(a) This is an indefinite -quantity  contract  for the supplies  or services  specified,  and effective  for the period  stated,  in the 
Schedule. The quantities of supplies and services specified in the Schedule are estimates only and are not purchased 
by this contract.  
 
(b) Delivery or performance shall be made only as authorized by orders issued in accordance with the Ordering clause.  
The Contractor  shall  furnish  to the Government,  when  and if ordered,  the supplies  or services  specified  in the 
Schedule up to and including the quantity designated in the Schedule as the "maximum". The Government shall 
order at least the quantity of supplies or services designated in the Schedule as the "minimum".  
 
(c) Except  for any limitations  on quantities  in the Order Limitations  clause  or in the Schedule,  there  is no limit  on the 
number of orders that may be issued. The Government may issue orders requiring delivery to multiple 
destinations or performance at multiple locations.  
 
(d) Any order issued during the effective period of this contract and not completed within that period shall be 
completed  by the Contractor  within  the time specified  in the order.  The contract  shall  govern  the Contractor's  and 
Government's rights and obligations with respect to that order to the same extent as if the order were completed 
during the contract's effective period; provided, that the Contractor shall not be required to make any deliveries 
under this contract afte r the end of the period of performance as specified in each task order.  
 
(End  of clause)  
 
 
 
52.217 -8 OPTION  TO EXTEND  SERVICES  (NOV  1999)  
 
The Government may  require  continued  performance  of any services  within  the limits  and at the  rates  specified  in the 
contract. These rates may be adjusted only as a result of revisions to prevailing labor rates provided by the Secretary  
of Labor.  The option  provision  may be exercised  more  than once,  but the total extension  of performance hereunder 
shall not exceed 6 months. The Contracting Officer may exercise the option by written notice to the Contractor within 
(insert the period of time within which the Contracting Officer may exercise the option).  
 
(End  of clause)  
 
 
52.217 -9 OPTION  TO EXTEND  THE  TERM  OF THE  CONTRACT  (MAR  2000)  
 
(a) The Government may extend the term of this contract by written notice to the Contractor within the current 
period  of performance ; provided  that the Government  gives  the Contractor  a preliminary  written  notice  of its intent 
to extend at least See Section H8 days before the contract expires. The preliminary notice does not commit the 
Government to an extension.  
 
(b) If the Government  exercises  this option,  the extended  contract  shall  be considered  to include  this option  clause.   
 (c) The total duration  of this contract,  including  the exercise  of any options  under  this clause,  shall  not exceed  See 
Section F3 and F4 . 
 
(End  of clause)  
 
 
52.219 -28 POST -AWARD  SMALL  BUSINESS  PROGRAM  REREPRESENTATION  (JULY  2013)  
 
(a) Definitions.  As used in this clause -- 
Long -term contract  means  a contract  of more  than five years  in duration,  including  options.  However,  the term does 
not include contracts that exceed five years in duration because the period of performance has been extended for a 
cumulative period not to exceed six months under the clause at 52.217 -8, Option to Extend Services, or other 
appropriate authority.  
 
Small business concern means a concern, including its affiliates,  that is independently owned and operated, not 
dominant in the field  of operation in which  it is bidding on  Government contracts, and qualified as a small business 
under the criteria in 13 CFR part 121 and the size standard in paragraph (c) of this clause.  Such a concern is ``not 
dominant  in its field of operation''  when  it does not exercise  a controlling  or major  influence  on a national  basis  in a 
kind of business activity in which a number of business concerns are primarily engaged. In determining whether  
dominance exists, consideration shall be given to all appropriate factors, including volume of business, number of 
employees,  financial  resources,  competitive  status  or position,  ownership  or control  of materials,  processes,  patents, 
license agreements, facilities, sales territory, and nature of business activity.  
 
(b) If the Contractor represented that it was a small business concern prior to award of this contract, the Contractor shall  
rerepresent  its size status  according  to paragraph  (e) of this clause  or, if applicable,  paragraph  (g) of this clause, upon 
the occurrence of any of the following:  
 
(1) Within  30 days after execution  of a novation  agreement  or within  30 days after modification  of the contract  to 
include this clause, if  the novation agreement was executed prior to inclusion of this clause in the contract.  
 
(2) Within  30 days after a merger  or acquisition  that does not require  a novation  or within  30 days after modification 
of the contract to include this clause, if the merger or acquisition occurred prior to inclusion of this clause in the 
contract.  
 
(3) For long-term contracts -- 
 
(i) Within  60 to 120 days prior  to the  end of the fifth year of the contract;  and 
 
(ii) Within  60 to 120 days prior  to the date specified  in the contract  for exercising  any option  thereafter.  
 
(c) The Contractor shall rerepresent its size status in accordance with the size standard in effect at the time of this 
rerepresentation  that corresponds  to the North  American  Industry  Classification  System  (NAICS)  code  assigned  to 
this contract. The small business size standard corresponding to this NAICS code can be found at 
http://www.sba.gov/content/table -small -business -size-standards.  
 
(d) The small  business  size standard  for a Contractor  providing  a product  which  it does not manufacture  itself,  for a 
contract other than a construction or service contract, is 500 employees.  
 
(e) Except as provided in paragraph (g) of this clause, the Contractor shall make the representation required by 
paragraph  (b) of this clause  by validating  or updating  all its representations  in the Representations  and Certifications 
section of the System for Award Management (SAM) and its other data in SAM, as necessary, to ensure that they 
reflect the Contractor's current status. The Contractor shall notify the contracting office in writing within t he 
timeframes specified in paragraph (b) of this clause that the data have been validated or updated, and provide the 
date of the validation or update.   
 (f) If the Contractor  represented  that it was other  than a small  business  concern  prior  to award of this contract,  the 
Contractor may, but is not required to, take the actions required by paragraphs (e) or (g) of this clause.  
 
(g) If the Contractor  does not have  representations  and certifications  in SAM,  or does not have  a representation  in 
SAM for the NAICS code applicable to this contract, the Contractor is required to complete the following 
representation and submit it to the contracting office, along with the contract number and the date on which the 
representation was completed:  
 
The Contractor  represents  that it (X ) is, ( ) is not a small  business  concern  under  NAICS  Code  541712 - assigned  to 
contract number W9113M -16-D-0003 . 
 
(End  of clause)  
 
 
52.222 -2 PAYMENT  FOR  OVERTIME  PREMIUMS  (JUL  1990)  
 
(a) The use of overtime  is authorized  under  this contract  if the overtime  premium  cost does not exceed  $0.00  or the 
overtime premium is paid for work -- 
 
(1) Necessary  to cope  with emergencies  such as those  resulting  from  accidents,  natural  disasters,  breakdowns  of 
production equipment, or occasional production bottlenecks of a sporadic nature;  
 
(2) By indirect -labor  employees  such as those  performing  duties  in connection  with administration,  protection, 
transportation, maintenance, standby plant protection, operation  of utilities, or accounting;  
 
(3) To perform tests, industrial processes, laboratory procedures, loading or unloading of transportation conveyances,  
and operations  in flight  or afloat  that are continuous  in nature  and cannot  reasonably  be interrupted  or completed 
otherwise; or  
 
(4) That will result  in lower  overall  costs  to the Government.  
 
(b) Any request  for estimated  overtime  premiums  that exceeds  the amount  specified  above  shall  include  all 
estimated overtime for contract completion and shall -- 
 
(1) Identify the work unit; e.g., department or section in which the requested overtime will be used, together with 
present  workload,  staffing,  and other  data of the affected  unit sufficient  to permit  the Contracting  Officer  to evaluate 
the necessity for the overtime;  
 
(2) Demonstrate  the effect  that denial  of the request  will have  on the contract  delivery  or performance  schedule;  
 
(3) Identify  the extent  to which  approval  of overtime  would  affect  the performance  or payments  in connection  with 
other Government contracts, together with identification of each affected contract; and  
 
(4) Provide  reasons  why the required  work  cannot  be performed  by using  multishift  operations  or by employing 
additional personnel.  
* Insert  either  "zero"  or the dollar  amount  agreed  to during  negotiations.  The inserted  figure  does not apply  to the 
exceptions in paragraph (a)(1) through (a)(4) of the clause.  
 
(End  of clause)  
 
 
52.222 -42 STATEMENT  OF EQUIVALENT  RATES  FOR  FEDERAL  HIRES  (MAY  2014)  
 
In compliance with the Service Contract Labor Standards statute and the regulations of the Secretary of Labor (29 CFR  
part 4), this clause  identifies  the classes  of service  employees  expected  to be employed  under  the contract  and  
 states  the wages  and fringe  benefits  payable  to each if they were  employed  by the contracting  agency  subject  to the 
provisions of 5 U.S.C. 5341 or 5332.  
 
THIS  STATEMENT  IS FOR  INFORMATION  ONLY:  IT IS NOT  A WAGE  DETERMINATION  
Employee  Class  Monetary  Wage -Fringe  Benefits  
 
See D3I Labor  Categories  and Attachment  01, when  applicable.  
 
(End  of clause)  
 
 
52.222 -50 COMBATING  TRAFFICKING  IN PERSONS  (MAR  2015)  ALTERNATE  I (MAR  2015)  
 
(a) Definitions.  As used in this clause — 
 
“Agent”  means  any individual,  including  a director,  an officer,  an employee,  or an independent  contractor, authorized 
to act on behalf of the organization.  
 
“Coercion”  means — 
 
(1) Threats  of serious  harm  to or physical  restraint  against  any person;  
 
(2) Any scheme,  plan,  or pattern  intended  to cause  a person  to believe  that failure  to perform  an act would  result  in 
serious harm to or physical restraint against any person; or  
 
(3) The abuse  or threatened  abuse  of the legal  process.  
“Commercial  sex act” means  any sex act on account  of which  anything  of value  is given  to or received  by any person.  
 
“Commercially  available  off-the-shelf  (COTS)  item”  means -- 
 
(1) Any item of supply  (including  construction  material)  that is— 
 
(i) A commercial  item (as defined  in paragraph  (1) of the definition  at FAR  2.101);  
 
(ii) Sold in substantial  quantities  in the commercial  marketplace;  and 
 
(iii) Offered  to the Government,  under  a contract  or subcontract  at any tier, without  modification,  in the same  form 
in which it is sold in the commercial marketplace; and  
 
(2) Does  not include  bulk cargo,  as defined  in 46 U.S.C.  40102(4),  such as agricultural  products  and petroleum 
products.  
 
“Debt  bondage”  means  the status  or condition  of a debtor  arising  from  a pledge  by the debtor  of his or her personal 
services or of those of a person under his or her control as a security for debt, if the value of those services as 
reasonably assessed is not applied toward the liquidation of the debt or the length and nature of those services are not 
respective ly limited and defined.  
 
“Employee”  means  an employee  of the Contractor  directly  engaged  in the performance  of work  under  the contract who 
has other than a minimal impact or involvement in contract performance.  
 
“Forced  labor”  means  knowingly  providing  or obtaining  the labor  or services  of a person — 
(1) By threats  of serious  harm  to, or physical  restraint  against,  that person  or another  person;  
 
(2) By means of any scheme, plan, or pattern intended to cause the person to believe that, if the person did not 
perform  such labor  or services,  that person  or another  person  would  suffer  serious  harm  or physical  restraint;  or  
 (3) By means of the abuse or threatened abuse of law or the legal process. 
“Involuntary  servitude”  includes  a condition  of servitude  induced  by means  of— 
 
(1) Any scheme,  plan,  or pattern  intended  to cause  a person  to believe  that, if the person  did not enter  into or 
continue  in such conditions,  that person  or another  person  would  suffer  serious  harm  or physical  restraint;  or 
 
(2) The abuse  or threatened  abuse  of the legal  process. 
“Severe forms of trafficking in persons” means — 
(1) Sex trafficking  in which  a commercial  sex act is induced  by force,  fraud,  or coercion,  or in which  the person 
induced to perform such act has not attained 18 years of age; or  
 
(2) The recruitment,  harboring,  transportation,  provision,  or obtaining  of a person  for labor  or services,  through  the use 
of force, fraud, or coercion for the purpose of subjection to involuntary servitude, peonage, debt bondage, or 
slavery.  
 
“Sex  trafficking”  means  the recruitment,  harboring,  transportation,  provision,  or obtaining  of a person  for the purpose 
of a commercial sex act.  
 
“Subcontract”  means  any contract  entered  into by a subcontractor  to furnish  supplies  or services  for performance  of a 
prime contract or a subcontract.  
 
“Subcontractor”  means  any supplier,  distributor,  vendor,  or firm that furnishes  supplies  or services  to or for a prime 
contractor or another subcontractor.  
 
“United  States”  means  the 50 States,  the District  of Columbia,  and outlying  areas.  
 
(b) Policy . The United  States  Government  has adopted  a policy  prohibiting  trafficking  in persons  including  the 
trafficking -related activities of this clause. Contractors, contractor employees, and their agents shall not — 
 
(1) Engage  in severe  forms  of trafficking  in persons  during  the period  of performance  of the contract;  
 
(2) Procure  commercial  sex acts during  the period  of performance  of the contract;  
 
(3) Use forced  labor  in the performance  of the contract;  
 
(4) Destroy,  conceal,  confiscate,  or otherwise  deny  access  by an employee  to the employee's  identity  or immigration 
documents, such as passports or drivers' licenses, regardless of issuing authority;  
 
(5)(i)  Use misleading  or fraudulent  practices  during the recruitment  of employees  or offering of employment, such as 
failing to disclose, in a format and langu age accessible to the worker, basic information or making material 
misrepresentations during the recruitment of employees regarding the key terms and conditions of employment, 
including wages and fringe benefits, the location of work, the living conditions , housing and associated costs (if 
employer  or agent  provided  or arranged),  any significant  cost to be charged  to the employee,  and, if applicable,  the 
hazardous nature of the work;  
 
(ii) Use recruiters  that do not comply  with local  labor  laws of the country  in which  the recruiting  takes  place;  
 
(6) Charge  employees  recruitment  fees; 
 
(7)(i)  Fail to provide  return  transportation  or pay for the cost of return  transportation  upon  the end of employment -- 
(A) For an employee who is not a national of the country in which the work is taking place and who was brought into  
that country  for the purpose  of working  on a U.S. Government  contract  or subcontract  (for portions  of contracts 
performed outside the United States); or   
 (B) For an employee  who is not a United  States  national  and who was  brought  into the United  States  for the purpose of 
working on a U.S. Government contract or subcontract, if the payment of such costs is required under existing 
temporary worker programs or pursuant t o a written agreement with the employee (for portions of contracts 
performed inside the United States); except that -- 
 
(ii) The requirements  of paragraphs  (b)(7)(i)  of this clause  shall  not apply  to an employee  who is-- 
 
(A) Legally  permitted  to remain  in the country  of employment  and who chooses  to do so; or 
 
(B) Exempted  by an authorized  official  of the contracting  agency  from  the requirement  to provide  return 
transportation or pay for the cost of return transportation;  
 
(iii)The requirements of paragraph (b)(7)(i) of this clause are modified for a victim of trafficking in persons who is 
seeking victim services or legal redress in the country of employment, or for a witness in an enforcement action 
related to trafficking in persons. The contractor shall pro vide the return transportation or pay the cost of return 
transportation  in a way that does not obstruct  the victim  services,  legal  redress,  or witness  activity.  For example,  the 
contractor shall not only offer return transportation to a witness at a time w hen the witness is still needed to testify. 
This paragraph does not apply when the exemptions at paragraph (b)(7)(ii) of this clause apply.  
 
(8) Provide  or arrange  housing  that fails to meet  the host country  housing  and safety  standards;  or 
 
(9) If required by law or contract, fail to provide an employment contract, recruitment agreement, or other required 
work document in writing. Such written work document shall be in a language the employee understands. If the 
employee  must  relocate  to perform  the work,  the work  document  shall  be provided  to the employee  at least five days 
prior to the employee relocating. The employee's work document shall include, but is not limited to, details about 
work description, wages, prohibition on charging recruitment fees, work location(s), living accommodations and 
associated costs, time off, roundtrip transportation arrangements, grievance process, and the content of applicable 
laws and regulations that prohibit trafficking in persons.  
 
(c) Contractor  require ments . The Contractor  shall— 
 
(1) Notify  its employees  of— 
 
(i) (A) The United  States  Government's  policy  prohibiting  trafficking  in persons  described  in paragraph  (b) of this 
clause; and  
 
(B) The following  directive(s)  or notice(s)  applicable  to employees  performing  work  at the contract  place(s)  of 
performance as indicated below:  
 
 
Document  Title  Document  may be obtained 
from:  Applies  to performance  in/at:  
   
   
   
 
To be completed  at the task order  level,  when  applicable . 
 
(ii) The actions that will be taken against employees or agents for violations of this policy. Such actions for 
employees  may include,  but are not limited  to, removal  from  the contract,  reduction  in benefits,  or termination  of 
employment; and  
 
(2) Take  appropriate  action,  up to and including  termination,  against  employees,  agents,  or subcontractors  that 
violate the policy in paragraph (b) of this clause.   
 (d) Notification . (1) The Contractor  shall  inform  the Contracting  Officer  and the agency  Inspector  General 
immediately of — 
 
(i) Any credible information it receives from any source (including host country law enforcement) that alleges a 
Contractor employee, subcontractor, subcontractor employee, or their agent has engaged in conduct that violates the 
policy in paragraph (b) of this clause (see also 18 U.S.C. 1351, Fraud in Foreign Labor Contracting, and 52.203 - 
13(b)(3)(i)(A),  if that clause  is included  in the solicitation  or contract,  which  requires  disclosure  to the agency  Office 
of the Inspector General when the Contractor has credible evidence of fraud); and  
 
(ii) Any actions  taken  against  a Contractor  employee,  subcontractor,  subcontractor  employee,  or their agent  pursuant 
to this clause.  
 
(2) If the allegation  may be associated  with more  than one contract,  the Contractor  shall  inform  the contracting officer 
for the contract with the highest dollar value.  
 
(e) Remedies . In addition  to other  remedies  available  to the Government,  the Contractor's  failure  to comply  with the 
requirements of paragraphs (c), (d), (g), (h), or (i) of this clause may result in — 
 
(1) Requiring  the Contractor  to remove  a Contractor  employee  or employees  from  the performance  of the contract;  
 
(2) Requiring  the Contractor  to terminate  a subcontract;  
 
(3) Suspension  of contract  payments  until the Contractor  has taken  appropriate  remedial  action;  
 
(4) Loss  of award  fee, consistent  with the award  fee plan,  for the performance  period  in which  the Government 
determined Contractor non -compliance;  
 
(5) Declining  to exercise  available  options  under  the contract;  
 
(6) Termination  of the contract  for default  or cause,  in accordance  with the termination  clause  of this contract;  or 
 
(7) Suspension  or debarment.  
 
(f) Mitigating  and aggravating  factors . When  determining  remedies,  the Contracting  Officer  may consider  the 
following:  
 
(1) Mitigating  factors . The Contractor  had a Trafficking  in Persons  compliance  plan or an awareness  program  at the 
time of the violation, was in compliance with the  plan, and has  taken appropriate remedial actions for the violation, 
that may include reparation to victims for such violations.  
 
(2) Aggravating  factors.  The Contractor  failed  to abate  an alleged  violation  or enforce  the requirements  of a 
compliance plan, when directed by the Contracting Officer to do so.  
 
(g) Full cooperation . 
 
(1) The Contractor  shall,  at a minimum — 
 
(i) Disclose  to the agency  Inspector  General  information  sufficient  to identify  the nature  and extent  of an offense  and 
the individuals responsible for the conduct;  
 
(ii) Provide  timely  and complete  responses  to Government  auditors'  and investigators'  requests  for documents;  
 
(iii) Cooperate fully in providing reasonable access to its facilities and staff (both inside and outside the U.S.) to 
allow  contracting  agencies  and other  responsible  Federal  agencies  to conduct  audits,  investigations,  or other  actions 
to ascertain  compliance  with the Trafficking  Victims  Protection  Act of 2000  (22 U.S.C.  chapter  78), E.O. 13627,  or 
any other applicable law or regulation establishing restrictions on trafficking in persons, the procurement of 
commercial sex acts, or the use of forced labor; and   
 (iv) Protect  all employees  suspected  of being  victims  of or witnesses  to prohibited  activities,  prior  to returning  to the 
country from which the employee was recruited, and shall not prevent or hinder the ability of these employees from 
cooperating fully with Government authorities.  
 
(2) The require ment  for full cooperation  does not foreclose  any Contractor  rights  arising  in law, the FAR,  or the 
terms of the contract. It does not — 
 
(i) Require  the Contractor  to waive  its attorney -client  privilege  or the protections  afforded  by the attorney  work 
product doctrine;  
 
(ii) Require  any officer,  director,  owner,  employee,  or agent  of the Contractor,  including  a sole proprietor,  to waive 
his or her attorney client privilege or Fifth Amendment rights; or  
 
(iii) Restrict  the Contractor  from— 
 
(A) Conducting  an internal  investigation;  or 
 
(B) Defending  a proceeding  or dispute  arising  under  the contract  or related  to a potential  or disclosed  violation.  
 
(h) Compliance  plan. 
 
(1) This paragraph  (h) applies  to any portion  of the contract  that— 
 
(i) Is for supplies,  other  than commercially  available  off-the-shelf  items,  acquired  outside  the United  States,  or 
services to be performed outside the United States; and  
 
(ii) Has an estimated  value  that exceeds  $500,000.  
 
(2) The Contractor  shall  maintain  a compliance  plan during  the performance  of the contract  that is appropriate — 
 
(i) To the size and complexity  of the contract;  and 
 
(ii) To the nature and scope of the activities to be performed for the Government, including the number of non - 
United  States  citizens  expected  to be employed  and the risk that the contract  or subcontract  will involve  services  or 
supplies susceptible to trafficking in persons.  
 
(3) Minimum  requirements . The compliance  plan must  include,  at a minimum,  the following:  
 
(i) An awareness program to inform contractor employees about the Government's policy prohibiting trafficking - 
related activities described in paragraph  (b) of this clause,  the activities prohibited, and the actions that will  be taken 
against  the employee  for violations.  Additional  information  about  Trafficking  in Persons  and examples  of awareness 
programs can be found at the Web site for the Department of State's Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in 
Persons at http://www.state.gov/j/tip/.  
 
(ii) A process for employees to report, without fear of retaliation, activity inconsistent with the policy prohibiting 
trafficking  in persons,  including  a means  to make  available  to all employees  the hotline  phone  number  of the Global 
Human Trafficking Hotline at 1 -844-888-FREE and its email address at help@befree.org.  
 
(iii) A recruitment and wage plan that only permits the use of recruitment companies with trained employees, 
prohibits  charging  recruitment  fees to the employee,  and ensures  that wages  meet  applicable  host-country  legal 
requirements or explains any variance.  
 
(iv) A housing  plan,  if the Contractor  or subcontractor  intends  to provide  or arrange  housing,  that ensures  that the 
housing meets host -country housing and safety standards.   
 (v) Procedures  to prevent  agents  and subcontractors  at any tier and at any dollar  value  from  engaging  in trafficking in 
persons (including activities in paragraph (b) of this clause) and to monitor, detect, and terminate any agents, 
subcontracts, or subcontractor employees that have engaged in such activities.  
 
(4) Posting . 
 
(i) The Contractor shall post the relevant contents of the compliance plan, no later than the initiation of contract 
performance,  at the workplace  (unless  the work  is to be performed  in the field or not in a fixed  location)  and on the 
Contractor's Web site (if one is maintained). If posting at the workplace or on the Web site is impracticable, the 
Contractor shall provide the relevant contents of the compliance plan to each worker in writing.  
 
(ii) The Contractor  shall  provide  the compliance  plan to the Contracting  Officer  upon  request.  
 
(5) Certification . Annually  after receiving  an award,  the Contractor  shall  submit  a certification  to the Contracting 
Officer that — 
 
(i) It has implemented  a compliance  plan to prevent  any prohibited  activities  identified  at paragraph  (b) of this 
clause and to monitor, detect, and terminate any agent, subcontract or subcontractor employee engaging in 
prohibited activities; and  
 
(ii) After  having  conducted  due diligence,  either — 
 
(A) To the best of the Contractor's  knowledge  and belief,  neither  it nor any of its agents,  subcontractors,  or their 
agents is engaged in any such activities; or  
 
(B) If abuses  relating  to any of the prohibited  activities  identified  in paragraph  (b) of this clause  have  been  found, the 
Contractor or subcontractor has taken the appropriate remedial and referral actions.  
 
(i) Subcontracts . 
 
(1) The Contractor  shall  include  the substance  of this clause,  including  this paragraph  (i), in all subcontracts  and in all 
contracts with agents. The requirements in paragraph (h) of this clause apply only to any portion of the 
subcontract that — 
 
(A) Is for supplies,  other  than commercially  available  off-the-shelf  items,  acquired  outside  the United  States,  or 
services to be performed outside the  United States; and  
 
(B) Has an estimated  value  that exceeds  $500,000.  
 
(2) If any subcontractor  is required  by this clause  to submit  a certification,  the Contractor  shall  require  submission 
prior to the award of the subcontract and annually thereafter. The certification shall cover the items in paragraph 
(h)(5) of this clause.  
 
(End  of clause)  
 
 
52.223 -9 ESTIMATE  OF PERCENTAGE  OF RECOVERED  MATERIAL  CONTENT  FOR  EPA -DESIGNATED 
ITEMS (MAY 2008)  
 
(a) Definitions.  As used in this clause -- 
Postconsumer material means a material or finished product that has served its intended use and has been discarded for  
disposal  or recovery,  having  completed  its life as a consumer  item.  Postconsumer  material  is a part of the broader 
category of “recovered material.”  
Recovered  material  means  waste  materials  and by-products  recovered  or diverted  from  solid  waste,  but the term does 
not include those materials and by -products generated from, and commonly reused within, an original manufacturing 
process.   
 (b) The Contractor,  on completion  of this contract,  shall -- 
 
(1) Estimate  the percentage  of the total recovered  material  content  for EPA -designated  item(s)  delivered  and/or  used 
in contract performance, including, if applicable, the percentage of post -consumer material content; and  
 
(2) Submit  this estimate  to *To be completed  at the task order  level,  when  applicable . 
(End of clause)  
 
 
52.227 -11 PATENT  RIGHTS --OWNERSHIP  BY THE  CONTRACTOR  (MAY  2014)  
 
(a) As used in this clause -- 
Invention means any invention or discovery that is or may be patentable or otherwise protectable under title 35 of the  
U.S. Code,  or any variety  of plant  that is or may be protectable  under  the Plant  Variety  Protection  Act (7 U.S.C. 2321, 
et seq.)  
 
Made  means -- 
 
(1) When  used in relation  to any invention  other  than a plant  variety,  the conception  or first actual  reduction  to 
practice of the invention; or  
 
(2) When  used in relation  to a plant  variety,  that the Contractor  has at least tentatively  determined  that the variety has 
been reproduced with recognized characteristics.  
 
Nonprofit organization means a university or other institution of higher education or an organization of the type 
described  in section  501(c)(3)  of the Internal  Revenue  Code  of 1954  (26 U.S.C.  501(c))  and exempt  from  taxation under 
section 501(a) of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 501(a)), or any nonprofit scientific or educational organization 
qualified under a State nonprofit organization statute.  
 
Practical application means to manufacture, in the case of a composition of product; to practice, in the case of a 
process  or method;  or to operate,  in the case of a machine  or system;  and, in each case,  under  such conditions  as to 
establish  that the invention  is being  utilized  and that its benefits are, to the extent permitted  by law or Government 
regulations, available to the public on reasonable terms.  
 
Subject  invention  means  any invention  of the Contractor  made  in the performance  of work  under  this contract.  
 
(b) Contractor's  rights.  (1) Ownership.  The Contractor  may retain  ownership  of each subject  invention  throughout the 
world in accordance with the provisions of this clause.  
 
(2) License. (i) The Contractor shall retain a nonexclusive royalty -free license throughout the world in each subject 
invention to which the Government obtains title, unless the Contractor fails to disclose the invention within the  times 
specified in paragraph (c) of this clause. The Contractor's license extends to any domes tic subsidiaries and affiliates 
within the corporate structure of which the Contractor is a part, and includes the right to grant sublicenses to  the extent  
the Contractor  was legally  obligated  to do so at contract  award.  The license  is transferable  only with the written 
approval of the agency, except when transferred to the successor of that part of the Contractor's business to which the 
invention pertains.  
 
(ii) The Contractor's license may be revoked or modified by the agency to the extent necessary to achieve 
expeditious  practical  application  of the subject  invention  in a particular  country  in accordance  with the procedures  in 
FAR 27.302(i)(2) and 27.304 -1(f). 
(c) Contractor's obligations. (1) The Contractor shall disclose in writing each subject invention to the Contracting 
Officer within 2 months after the inventor discloses it in writing to Contractor personnel responsible for patent 
matters.  The disclosure  shall  identify  the inventor(s)  and this contract  under  which  the subject  inventio n was made. 
It shall be sufficiently complete in technical detail to convey a clear understanding of the subject invention. The   
 disclosure shall also identify any publication, on sale (i.e., sale or offer for sale), or public use of the subject invention,  
or whether  a manuscript  describing  the subject  invention  has been  submitted  for publication  and, if so, whether it has 
been accepted for publication. In addition, after disclosure to the agency, the Contractor shall promptly notify the 
Contracting Officer of the acceptance of any manuscript describing the subject invention for publication and any on 
sale or public use.  
 
(2) The Contractor  shall  elect  in writing  whether  or not to retain  ownership  of any subject  invention  by notifying  the 
Contracting Officer within 2 years of disclosure to the agency. However, in any case where publication, on sale, or 
public use has initiated the 1 -year statutory period during which valid patent protection can be obtained in the 
United States, the period f or election of title may be shortened by the agency to a date that is no more than 60 days 
prior to the end of the statutory period.  
 
(3) The Contractor shall file either a provisional or a nonprovisional patent application or a Plant Variety Protection 
Applic ation on an elected subject invention within 1 year after election. However, in any case where a publication, 
on sale, or public  use has initiated  the 1-year statutory  period  during  which  valid  patent  protection  can be obtained  in 
the United States, the Co ntractor shall file the application prior to the end of that statutory period. If the Contractor 
files a provisional application, it shall file a nonprovisional application within 10 months of the filing of the 
provisional application. The Contractor shall  file patent applications in additional countries or international patent 
offices within either 10 months of the first filed patent application (whether provisional or nonprovisional) or 6 
months  from the date permission is granted by the Commissioner  of Patents to file foreign patent applications where 
such filing has been prohibited by a Secrecy Order.  
 
(4) The Contractor  may request  extensions  of time for disclosure,  election,  or filing  under  paragraphs  (c)(1),  (c)(2), 
and (c)(3) of this clause.  
 
(d) Government's  rights --(1) Ownership.  The Contractor  shall  assign  to the agency,  on written  request,  title to any 
subject invention -- 
 
(i) If the Contractor fails to disclose or elect ownership to the subject invention within the times specified in paragraph  
(c) of this clause,  or elects  not to retain  ownership;  provided,  that the agency  may request  title only within 60 days 
after learning of the Contractor's failure to disclose or elect within the specified times.  
 
(ii) In those  countries  in which  the Contractor  fails to file patent  applications  within  the times  specified  in paragraph  
(c) of this clause;  provided,  however,  that if the Contractor  has filed a patent  application  in a country  after the times 
specified in paragraph (c) of this clause, but prior to its receipt of the written request of the agency, the Contractor 
shall continue to retain ownership in that country.  
 
(i) In any country  in which  the Contractor  decides  not to continue  the prosecution  of any application  for, to pay the 
maintenance fees on, or defend in reexamination or opposition proceeding on, a patent on a subject invention.  
 
(2) License.  If the Contractor  retains  ownership  of any subject  invention,  the Government  shall  have  a nonexclusive, 
nontransferable, irrevocable, paid -up license to practice, or have practiced for or on its behalf, the subject invention 
throughout the world.  
 
(e) Contractor  action  to protect  the Government's  interest.  (1) The Contractor  shall  execute  or have  executed  and 
promptly deliver to the agency all instruments necessary to -- 
 
(i) Establish  or confirm  the rights  the Government  has throughout  the world  in those  subject  inventions  in which  the 
Contractor elects to retain ownership; and  
 
(ii) Assign  title to the agency  when  requested  under  paragraph  (d) of this clause  and to enable  the Government  to 
obtain patent protection and plant variety protection for that subject invention in any country.  
(2) The Contractor shall require, by written agreement, its employees, oth er than clerical and nontechnical 
employees, to disclose promptly in writing to personnel identified as responsible for the administration of patent 
matters and in the Contractor's format, each subject invention in order that the Contractor can comply with  the 
disclosure  provisions  of paragraph  (c) of this clause,  and to execute  all papers  necessary  to file patent  applications 
on subject inventions and to establish the Government's rights in the subject inventions. The disclosure format   
 should require, as a minimum, the information required by paragraph (c)(1) of this clause. The Contractor shall instr uct 
such employees,  through  employee  agreements  or other  suitable  educational  programs,  as to the importance of 
reporting inventions in sufficient time to permit the filing  of patent applications prior to U.S. or foreign statutory bars. 
 
(3) The Contractor sha ll notify the Contracting Officer of any decisions not to file a nonprovisional patent 
application,  continue  the prosecution  of a patent  application,  pay maintenance  fees, or defend  in a reexamination  or 
opposition proceeding on a patent, in any country, not less than 30 days before the expiration of the response or 
filing period required by the relevant patent office.  
 
(4) The Contractor shall include, within the specification of any United States nonprovisional patent or plant variety 
protection app lication and any patent or plant variety protection certificate issuing thereon covering a subject 
invention,  the following  statement,  “This  invention  was made  with Government  support  under  (identify  the contract) 
awarded by (identify the agency). The Government has certain rights in the invention.”  
 
(f) Reporting on utilization of subject inventions. The Contractor shall submit, on request, periodic reports no more 
frequently than annually on the utilization of a subject invention or on efforts at obtaining utilization of the subject 
invention that are being made by the Contractor or its licensees or assignees. The reports shall include information 
regarding  the status  of development,  date of first commercial  sale or use, gross  royalties  received  by the Contractor, 
and other data and information as the agency may reasonably specify. The Contractor also shall provide additional 
reports  as may be requested  by the agency  in connection  with any march -in proceeding  undertaken  by the agency  in 
accordance with paragraph (h) of this clause. The Contractor also shall mark any utilization report as 
confidential/proprietary to help prevent inadvertent release outside the Government. As required by 35 U.S.C. 
202(c)(5), the agency will not disclose that information to persons outside the Government without the Contractor's 
permission.  
 
(g) Preference for United States industry. Notwithstanding any other provision of this clause, neither the Contractor nor  
any assignee  shall  grant  to any person  the exclus ive right  to use or sell any subject  invention  in the United  States 
unless the person agrees that any products embodying the subject invention or produced through the use of the 
subject invention will be manufactured substantially in the United States. How ever, in individual cases, the 
requirement for an agreement may be waived by the agency upon a showing by the Contractor or its assignee that 
reasonable but unsuccessful efforts have been made to grant licenses on similar terms to potential licensees that 
would be likely to manufacture substantially in the United States, or that under the circumstances domestic 
manufacture is not commercially feasible.  
 
(h) March -in rights.  The Contractor  acknowledges  that, with respect  to any subject  invention  in which  it has retained 
ownership, the agency has the right to require licensing pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 203 and 210(c), and in accordance 
with the procedures in 37 CFR 401.6 and any supplemental regulations of the agency in effect on the date of  
contract award.  
 
(i) Speci al provisions  for contracts  with nonprofit  organizations.  If the Contractor  is a nonprofit  organization,  it 
shall-- 
 
(1) Not assign  rights  to a subject  invention  in the United  States  without  the written  approval  of the agency,  except 
where an assignment is made to an organization that has as one of its primary functions the management of 
inventions, provided, that the assignee shall be subject to the same provisions as the Contractor;  
 
(2) Share  royalties  collected  on a subject  invention  with the inventor,  including  Federal  employee  co-inventors  (but 
through their agency if the agency deems it appropriate) when the subject invention is assigned in accordance with 
35 U.S.C. 202(e) and 37 CFR 401.10;  
(3) Use the balance of any royalties or income earned by the Contractor with respect to subject inventions, after 
payment  of expenses  (including  payments  to inventors)  incidental  to the administration  of subject  inventions  for the 
support of scientific research or education; and  
 
(4) Make  efforts  that are reasonable  under  the circumstances  to attract  licensees  of subject  inventions  that are small 
business concerns, and give a preference to a small business concern when licensing a subject invention if the 
Contractor determines that the  small business concern has a plan or proposal for marketing the invention which, if   
 executed,  is equally  as likely  to bring  the invention  to practical  application  as any plans  or proposals  from  applicants 
that are not small business concerns; provided, that the Contractor is also satisfied that the small business concern has 
the capability and resources to carry out its plan or proposal. The decision whether to give a preference in any specific 
case will be at the discretion of the Co ntractor.  
 
(5) Allow the Secretary of Commerce to review the Contractor's licensing program and decisions regarding small 
business applicants, and negotiate changes to its licensing policies, procedures, or practices with the Secretary of 
Commerce  when  the Secretary's  review  discloses  that the Contractor  could  take reasonable  steps  to more  effectively 
implement the requirements of paragraph (i)(4) of this clause.  
 
(j) Communications.  (Complete  according  to agency  instructions.)  
 
(k) Subcontracts.  (1) The Contractor  shall  include  the substance  of this clause,  including  this paragraph  (k), in all 
subcontracts for experimental, developmental, or research work to be performed by a small business concern or 
nonprofit organization.  
 
(2) The Contractor  shall  include  in all other  subcontracts  for experimental,  developmental,  or research  work  the 
substance of the patent rights clause required by FAR Subpart 27.3.  
 
(3) At all tiers, the patent rights clause must be modified to identify the parties as follows: referen ces to the 
Government  are not changed,  and the subcontractor  has all rights  and obligations  of the Contractor  in the clause. 
The Contractor shall not, as part of the consideration for awarding the subcontract, obtain rights in the 
subcontractor's subject inventions.  
 
(4) In subcontracts,  at any tier, the agency,  the subcontractor,  and the Contractor  agree  that the mutual  obligations  of the 
parties created by this clause constitute a contract between the subcontractor and the agency with  respect to the 
matters covered by the clause; provided, however, that nothing in this paragraph is intended to confer any 
jurisdiction under the Contract Disputes statute in connection with proceedings under paragraph (h) of this clause.  
 
(End  of clause)  
 
 
 
52.229 -8 TAXES --FOREIGN  COST -REIMBURSEMENT  CONTRACTS  (MAR  1990)  
 
(a) Any tax or duty from  which  the United  States  Government  is exempt  by agreement  with the Government  of *To be 
completed at the task order level, when applicable , or from which the Contractor or any subcontractor under this 
contract is exempt under the laws of *To be completed at the task order level, when applicable , shall not 
constitute an allowable cost under this contract.  
 
(b) If the Contractor  or subcontractor  under this contract  obtains  a foreign  tax credit  that reduces  its Federal  income tax  
liability  under  the United  States  Internal  Revenue  Code  (Title  26, U.S. Code)  because  of the payment  of any tax or 
duty that was reimbursed under this contract, the amount of the reduction shall be paid or credited at the time of 
such offset to the Government of the United States as the Contracting Officer directs.  
 
(End  of clause)  
 
 
52.232 -32 PERFORMANCE -BASED  PAYMENTS  (APR  2012)  
 
(a) Amount  of payments and limitations on payments. Subject to such other limitations and conditions as are 
specified  in this contract  and this clause,  the amount  of payments  and limitations  on payments  shall  be specified  in 
the contract's description of the basis for payment.   
 (b) Contractor request for performance -based payment. The Contractor may submit requests for payment of 
performance -based  payments  not more  frequently  than monthly,  in a form  and manner  acceptable  to the Contracting 
Officer. Un less otherwise authorized by the Contracting Officer, all performance -based payments in any period for 
which payment is being requested shall be included in a single request, appropriately itemized and totaled. The 
Contractor's request shall contain the in formation and certification detailed in paragraphs (l) and (m) of this clause.  
 
(c) Approval  and payment  of requests.  
 
(1) The Contractor shall not be entitled to payment of a request for performance -based payment prior to successful 
accomplishment  of the event  or performance  criterion  for which  payment  is requested.  The Contracting  Officer  shall 
determine whether the event or performance criterion for which payment is requested has been successfully 
accomplished in accordance with the terms of the contract . The Contracting Officer may, at any time, require the 
Contractor to substantiate the successful performance of any event or performance criterion which has been or is 
represented as being payable.  
 
(2) A payment under this performance -based payment clause is  a contract financing payment under the Prompt 
Payment clause of this contract and not subject to the interest penalty provisions of the Prompt Payment Act. The 
designated payment office will pay approved requests on the 30th [Contracting Officer insert da y as prescribed by 
agency  head;  if not prescribed,  insert  ``30th'']  day after receipt  of the request  for performance -based  payment  by the 
designated payment office. However, the designated payment office is not required to provide payment if the 
Contracting  Officer  requires  substantiation  as provided  in paragraph  (c)(1)  of this clause,  or inquiries  into the status 
of an event or performance criterion, or into any of the conditions listed in paragraph (e) of this clause, or into the 
Contractor cert ification. The payment period will not begin until the Contracting Officer approves the request.  
 
(3) The approval  by the Contracting  Officer  of a request  for performance -based  payment  does not constitute  an 
acceptance  by the Government and does not excuse the Contractor from performance of obligations under this 
contract.  
 
(d) Liquidation  of performance -based  payments.  
 
(1) Performance -based finance amounts paid prior to payment for delivery of an item shall be liquidated by d educting  
a percentage  or a designated  dollar  amount  from  the delivery  payment.  If the performance -based  finance payments 
are on a delivery item basis, the liquidation amount for each such line item shall be the percent of that delivery 
item price that was previously paid under performance -based finance payments or the designated dollar amount. If 
the performance -based finance payments are on a whole contract basis, liquidation shall be by either predesignated 
liquidation amounts or a liquidation percent age. 
 
(2) If at any time the amount of payments under this contract exceeds any limitation in this contract, the Contractor 
shall  repay  to the Government  the excess.  Unless  otherwise  determined  by the Contracting  Officer,  such excess  shall 
be credited as a reduction in the unliquidated performance -based payment balance(s), after adjustment of invoice 
payments and balances for any retroactive price adjustments.  
 
(e) Reduction or suspension of performance -based payments. The Contracting Officer may reduce or suspe nd 
performance -based  payments,  liquidate  performance -based  payments  by deduction  from  any payment  under  the 
contract, or take a combination of these actions after finding upon substantial evidence any of the following 
conditions:  
 
(1) The Contractor  failed  to comply  with any material  requirement  of this contract  (which  includes  paragraphs  (h) 
and (i) of this cla use).  
 
(2) Performance  of this contract  is endangered  by the Contractor's  -- 
(i) Failure  to make  progress;  or 
 
(ii) Unsatisfactory  financial  condition.  
 
(3) The Contractor  is delinquent  in payment  of any subcontractor  or supplier  under  this contract  in the ordinary 
course of business.   
 (f) Title.  
 
(1) Title to the property described in this paragraph (f) shall  vest in the Government.  Vestiture shall be  immediately 
upon the date of the first performance -based payment under this contract, for property acquired or produced before 
that date.  Otherwise,  vestiture  shall  occur  when  the property  is or should  have  been  allocable  or properly  chargeable 
to this contract  
 
(2) "Property," as used in this clause, includes all of  the following described items acquired or produced by the 
Contractor  that are or should  be allocable  or properly  chargeable  to this contract  under  sound  and generally  accepted 
accounting principles and practices:  
 
(i) Parts,  materials,  inventories,  and work  in process;  
 
(ii) Special  tooling  and special  test equipment  to which  the Government  is to acquire  title; 
 
(iii) Nondurable (i.e., noncapital) tools, jigs, dies, fixtures, molds, patterns, taps, gauges, test equipment and other 
similar  manufacturing  aids, title to which  would  not be obtained  as special  tooling  under  subparagraph  (f)(2)(ii)  of 
this clause; and  
 
(iv) Drawings  and technical  data,  to the extent  the Contractor  or subcontractors  are required  to deliver  them  to the 
Government by other clauses of this contract.  
 
(3) Although  title to property  is in the Government  under  this clause,  other  applicable  clauses  of this contract  (e.g., the 
termination or clauses) shall determine the handling and disposition of the property.  
 
(4) The Contractor may sell any scrap resulting from production under this contract, without requesting the 
Contracting  Officer's  approval,  provided  that any significant  reduction  in the value  of the property  to which  the 
Government has title under this clause is reported in writing to the Contracting Officer.  
 
(5) In order to  acquire for its own use or dispose of property to which title is vested in the Government under this 
clause, the Contractor shall obtain the Contracting Officer's advance approval of the action and the terms. If 
approved,  the basis  for payment  (the events  or performance  criteria)  to which  the property  is related  shall  be deemed 
to be not in compliance with the terms of the contract and not payable (if the property is part of or needed for 
performance), and the Contractor shall refund the related performanc e-based payments in accordance with  
paragraph (d) of this clause.  
 
(6) When the Contractor completes all of  the obligations under this contract, including liquidation of all 
performance -based  payments,  title shall  vest in the Contractor  for all property  (or the proceeds  thereof)  not -- 
 
(i) Delivered  to, and accepted  by, the Government  under  this contract;  or 
 
(ii) Incorporated  in supplies  delivered  to, and accepted  by, the Government  under  this contract  and to which  title is 
vested in the Government under this clause.  
 
(7) The terms  of this contract  concerning  liability  for Government -furnished  property  shall  not apply  to property  to 
which the Government acquired title solely under this clause.  
 
(g) Risk of loss. Before delivery to and acceptance by the Government, the Contractor shall bear the risk of loss for 
property,  the title to which  vests  in the Government  under  this clause,  except  to the extent  the Government  expressly 
assumes the risk. If any property is lost (see 45.101), the basis of payment (the events or performance criteria) to 
which the property is related shall be deemed to be not in compliance with the terms of the contract and not payable 
(if the property is part of or needed for performance), and the Contractor shall refund the related  
performance -based  payments  in accordance  with paragraph  (d) of this clause.   
 (h) Records and controls. The Contractor shall maintain records and controls adequate for administration of this 
clause.  The Contractor  shall  have  no entitlement  to performance -based  payments  during  any time the Contractor's 
records or controls are determined by the Contracting Officer to be inadequate for administration of this clause.  
 
(i) Reports  and Government  access.  The Contractor  shall  promptly  furnish  reports,  certificates,  financial  statements, 
and other pertinent information requested by the Contracting Officer for the administration of this clause and to 
determine that an event or other criterion prompting a financing payment has been successfully accomplished. The 
Contractor shall give the Government reasonable opportunity to examine and verify the Contractor's  records and to 
examine and verify the Contractor's performance of this contract for administration of this clause.  
 
(j) Special  terms  regarding  default.  If this contract  is terminated  under  the Default  clause,  
 
(1) the Contractor  shall,  on demand,  repay  to the Government  the amount  of unliquidated  performance -based 
payments, and  
 
(2) title shall  vest in the Contractor,  on full liquidation  of all performance -based  payments,  for all property  for which the 
Government elects not to require delivery under the Default clause of this contract. The Government shall be liable 
for no payment except as provided by the Default clause.  
 
(k) Reservation  of rights.  
 
(1) No payment  or vesting  of title under  this clause  shall  -- 
 
(i) Excuse  the Contractor  from  performance  of obligations  under  this contract;  or 
 
(ii) Constitute  a waiver  of any of the rights  or remedies  of the parties  under  the contract.  
 
(2) The Government's  rights  and remedies  under  this clause  -- 
 
(i) Shall  not be exclusive,  but rather  shall  be in addition  to any other  rights  and remedies  provided  by law or this 
contract; and  
 
(ii) Shall  not be affected  by delayed,  partial,  or omitted  exercise  of any right,  remedy,  power,  or privilege,  nor shall 
such exercise  or any single  exercise  preclude  or impair  any further  exercise  under  this clause  or the exercise  of any 
other right, power, or privilege of the Government.  
 
(l) Content  of Contractor's  request  for performance -based  payment.  The Contractor's  request  for performance -based 
payment shall contain the following:  
 
(1) The name  and address  of the Contractor;  
 
(2) The date of the request  for performance -based  payment;  
 
(3) The contract  number  and/or  other  identifier  of the contract  or order  under  which  the request  is made;  
 
(4) Such  information  and documentation  as is required  by the contract's  description  of the basis  for payment;  and 
 
(5) A certification  by a Contractor  official  authorized  to bind the Contractor,  as specified  in paragraph  (m) of this 
clause.  
 
(m) Content  of Contractor's  certification.  As required  in paragraph  (l)(5)  of this clause,  the Contractor  shall  make  the 
following certification in each request for performance -based payment:  
 
I certify  to the best of my knowledge  and belief  that --  
 (1) This request  for performance -based  payment  is true and correct;  this request  (and attachments)  has been  prepared 
from the  books  and records  of the Contractor, in accordance  with the contract and the instructions  of the Contracting 
Officer;  
 
(2) (Except as reported in writing on  ), all payments  to subcontractors  and suppliers  under  this contract 
have been paid, or will be paid, currently, when due in the ordinary course of business;  
 
(3) There are no encumbrances (except as reported in writing on  ) against the property acquired or 
produced  for, and allocated  or properly  chargeable  to, the contract  which  would  affect  or impair  the Government's 
title; 
 
(4) There  has been  no materially  adverse  change  in the financial  condition  of the Contractor  since  the submission  by the 
Contractor to the Government of the most recent written information dated  ; and  
 
(5) After  the making  of this requested  performance -based  payment,  the amount  of all payments  for each deliverable 
item for which  performance -based  payments  have  been  requested  will not exceed  any limitation  in the contract,  and 
the amount of all payments under the contract will not exceed any limitation in the contract.  
 
(End  of Clause)  
 
 
52.243 -7 NOTIFICATION  OF CHANGES  (APR  1984)  
 
(a) Definitions.  
 
"Contracting  Officer,"  as used in this clause,  does not include  any representative  of the Contracting  Officer.  
 
"Specifically  authorized  representative  (SAR),"  as used in this clause,  means  any person  the Contracting  Officer  has so 
designated by written notice (a copy of which shall be provided to the Contractor) which shall refer to this 
subparagraph and shall be issued to the designated representative before the SAR exercises such authority.  
 
(b) Notice. The primary purpose of this clause is to obta in prompt reporting of Government conduct that the 
Contractor  considers  to constitute  a change  to this contract.  Except  for changes  identified  as such in writing  and 
signed  by the Contracting  Officer,  the Contractor  shall  notify  the Administrative  Contracting  Officer  in writing, 
within calendar days from the date that the Contractor identifies any Government conduct (including actions, 
inactions,  and written  or oral communications)  that the Contractor  regards  as a change  to the contra ct terms  and 
conditions. On the basis of the most accurate information available to the Contractor, the notice shall state -- 
 
(1) The date,  nature,  and circumstances  of the conduct  regarded  as a change;  
 
(2) The name,  function,  and activity  of each Government  individual  and Contractor  official  or employee  involved  in or 
knowledgeable about such conduct;  
 
(3) The identification  of any documents  and the substance  of any oral communication  involved  in such conduct;  
 
(4) In the instance  of alleged  acceleration  of scheduled  performance  or delivery,  the basis  upon  which  it arose;  
 
(5) The particular  elements  of contract  performance  for which  the Contractor  may seek an equitable  adjustment 
under this clause, including -- 
 
(i) What  contract  line items  have  been  or may be affected  by the alleged  change;  
 
(ii) What  labor  or materials  or both have  been  or may be added,  deleted,  or wasted  by the alleged  change;  
(iii) To the extent  practicable,  what  delay  and disruption  in the manner  and sequence  of performance  and effect  on 
continued performance have been or may be caused by the alleged change;   
 (iv) What  adjustments  to contract  price,  delivery  schedule,  and other  provisions  affected  by the alleged  change  are 
estimated; and  
 
(6) The Contractor's  estimate  of the time by which  the Government  must  respond  to the Contractor's  notice  to 
minimize cost, delay or disruption of performance.  
 
(c) Continued  performance.  Following  submission  of the notice  required  by (b) above,  the Contractor  shall  diligently 
continue  performance  of this contract  to the maximum  extent  possible  in accordance  with its terms  and conditions  as 
construed by the Contractor, unless the notice reports a direction of the Contracting Officer or a communication  
from a SAR of the Contracting Officer, in either of which events the Contractor shall continue performance; 
provided, however, that if the Contractor regards the direction or communication as a change as described in (b) 
above, notice shall be given in the  manner provided. All directions, communications, interpretations, orders and 
similar actions of the SAR shall be reduced to writing and copies furnished to the Contractor and to the Contracting 
Officer. The Contracting Officer shall countermand any action  which exceeds the authority of the SAR.  
 
(d) Government  response.  The Contracting  Officer  shall  promptly,  within  calendar  days after receipt  of notice, 
respond to the notice in writing. In responding, the Contracting Officer shall either -- 
 
(1) Confirm  that the conduct  of which  the Contractor  gave  notice  constitutes  a change  and when  necessary  direct  the 
mode of further performance;  
 
(2) Countermand  any communication  regarded  as a change;  
 
(3) Deny  that the conduct  of which  the Contractor  gave  notice  constitutes  a change  and when  necessary  direct  the 
mode of further performance; or  
 
(4) In the event the Contractor's notice information is inadequate to make a decision under (1), (2), or (3) above, advise  
the Contractor  what  additional  information  is require d, and establish  the date by which  it should  be furnished and 
the date thereafter by which the Government will respond.  
 
(e) Equitable  adjustments.  
 
(1) If the Contracting  Officer  confirms  that Government  conduct  effected  a change  as alleged  by the Contractor,  and the 
conduct causes an increase or decrease in the Contractor's cost of, or the time required for, performance of any part  
of the work  under  this contract,  whether  changed  or not changed  by such conduct,  an equitable  adjustment  shall be 
made -- 
 
(i) In the contract  price  or delivery  schedule  or both;  and 
 
(ii) In such other  provisions  of the contract  as may be affected.  
 
(2) The contract shall be modified in writing accordingly. In the case of drawings, designs or specifications which are 
defective and for which the Government is responsible, the equitable adjustment shall include the cost and time 
extension for delay reasonab ly incurred by the Contractor in attempting to comply with the defective drawings, 
designs or specifications before the Contractor identified, or reasonably should have identified, such defect. When 
the cost of property made obsolete or excess as a result of a change confirmed by the Contracting Officer under this 
clause  is included  in the equitable  adjustment,  the Contracting  Officer  shall  have  the right  to prescribe  the manner  of 
disposition of the property. The equitable adjustment shall not include increased costs or time extensions for delay 
resulting from the Contractor's failure to provide notice or to continue performance as provided, respectively, in (b) 
and (c) above.  
 
Note:  The phrases  “contract  price”  and “cost”  wherever  they appear  in the clause,  may be appropriately  modified  to 
apply to cost -reimbursement or incentive contracts, or to combinations thereof.  
 
(End  of clause)   
 52.244 -2 SUBCONTRACTS  (OCT  2010)  
 
(a) Definitions.  As used in this clause -- 
 
Approved  purchasing  system  means  a Contractor's  purchasing  system  that has been  reviewed  and approved  in 
accordance with Part 44 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR).  
 
Consent  to subcontract  means  the Contracting  Officer's  written  consent  for the Contractor  to enter  into a particular 
subcontract.  
 
Subcontract means any contract, as defined in FAR Subpart 2.1, entered into by a subcontractor to furnish supplies or  
services  for performance  of the prime  contract  or a subcontract.  It includes,  but is not limited  to, purchase  orders, and 
changes and modifications to purchase orders.  
 
(b) When this  clause is included in a  fixed -price type  contract, consent to  subcontract is  required  only on unpriced 
contract  actions  (including  unpriced  modifications  or unpri ced delivery  orders),  and only if required  in accordance 
with paragraph (c) or (d) of this clause.  
(c) If the Contractor  does not have  an approved  purchasing  system,  consent  to subcontract  is required  for any 
subcontract that — 
 
(1) Is of the cost-reimbursement,  time-and-materials,  or labor -hour type;  or 
 
(2) Is fixed -price  and exceeds — 
 
(i) For a contract  awarded  by the Department  of Defense,  the Coast  Guard,  or the National  Aeronautics  and Space 
Administration, the greater of the simplified acquisition threshold or 5 percent of the total estimated cost of the 
contract; or  
 
(ii) For a contract  awarded  by a civilian  agency  other  than the Coast  Guard  and the National  Aeronautics  and Space 
Administration, either the simplified acquisition threshold or 5 percent of the total estimated cost of the contract.  
 
(d) If the Contractor  has an approved  purchasing  system,  the Contractor  nevertheless  shall  obtain  the Contracting 
Officer’s written consent before placing the following subcontracts:  
 
N/A 
 
(e)(1)  The Contractor  shall  notify  the Contracting  Officer  reasonably  in advance  of placing  any subcontract  or 
modification  thereof  for which  consent  is required  under  paragraph  (b), (c), or (d) of this clause,  including  the 
following information:  
 
(i) A description  of the supplies  or services  to be subcontracted.  
 
(ii) Identification  of the type of subcontract  to be used.  
 
(iii) Identification  of the proposed  subcontractor.  
 
(iv) The proposed  subcontract  price.  
 
(v) The subcontractor’s  current,  complete,  and accurate  certified  cost or pricing  data and Certificate  of Current  Cost or 
Pricing Data, if required by other contract provisions.  
 
(vi) The subcontractor’s  Disclosure  Statement  or Certificate  relating  to Cost Accounting  Standards  when  such data 
are required by other provisions of this contract.  
 
(vii) A negotiation  memorandum  reflecting —  
 (A) The principal  elements  of the subcontract  price  negotiations;  
 
(B) The most  significant  considerations  controlling  establishment  of initial  or revised  prices;  
 
(C) The reason  certified  cost or pricing  data were  or were  not required;  
 
(D) The extent,  if any, to which  the Contractor  did not rely on the subcontractor’s  certified  cost or pricing  data in 
determining  
the price  objective  and in negotiating  the final price;  
 
(E) The extent to which it was recognized in the negotiation that the subcontractor’s certified cost or pricing data 
were  not accurate,  complete,  or current;  the action  taken  by the Contractor  and the subcontractor;  and the effect  of 
any such defective data on the total price negotiated;  
 
(F) The reasons  for any significant  difference  between  the Contractor’s  price  objective  and the price  negotiated;  and 
 
(G) A complete explanation of the incentive fee or profit plan when incentives are used. The explanation shall identify  
each critical  performance  element,  management  decisions  used to quantify  each incentive  element,  reasons for the 
incentives, and a summary of all trade -off possibilities considered.  
 
(2) The Contractor  is not required  to notify  the Contracting  Officer  in advance  of entering  into any subcontract  for 
which consent is not required under paragraph (c), (d), or (e) of this clause.  
 
(f) Unless  the consent  or approval  specifically  provides  otherwise,  neither  consent  by the Contracting  Officer  to any 
subcontract nor approval of the Contractor’s purchasing system shall constitute a determination — 
 
(1) Of the acceptability  of any subcontract  terms  or conditions;  
 
(2) Of the allowability  of any cost under  this contract;  or 
 
(3) To relieve  the Contractor  of any responsibility  for performing  this contract.  
 
(g) No subcontract or modification thereof placed under this contract shall provide for payment on a cost -plus-a- 
percentage -of-cost basis,  and any fee payable  under  cost-reimbursement  type subcontracts  shall  not exceed  the fee 
limitations in FAR 15.404 -4(c)(4)(i).  
 
(h) The Contractor  shall  give the Contracting  Officer  immediate  written  notice  of any action  or suit filed and prompt 
notice of any claim made against the Contractor by any subcontractor or vendor that, in the opinion of the 
Contractor, may result in litigation related in any way to this contract, with respect to which the Contractor may be 
entitled to reimbursement from the Government.  
 
(i) The Government  reserves  the right  to review  the Contractor’s  purchasing  system  as set forth  in FAR  Subpart 
44.3.  
 
(j) Paragraphs  (c) and (e) of this clause  do not apply  to the following  subcontracts,  which  were  evaluated  during 
negotiations:  
 
S 
 
(End  of clause)  
 
 
52.245 -2 GOVERNMENT  PROPERTY  INSTALLATION  OPERATION  SERVICES  (APR  2012)  
 
(a) This Government  Property  listed  in paragraph  (e) of this clause  is furnished  to the Contractor  in an ``as-is, where is'' 
condition. The Government makes no warranty regarding the suitability for use of the Government property   
 specified  in this contract.  The Contractor  shall  be afforded  the opportunity  to inspect  the Government  property  as 
specified in the solicitation.  
 
(b) The Government  bears  no responsibility  for repair  or replacement  of any lost Government  property.  If any or all of  
the Government  property  is lost or becomes  no longer  usable,  the Contractor  shall  be responsible  for replacement of 
the property at Contractor expense. The Contractor shall have title to all  replacement property and shall continue to 
be responsible for contract performance.  
 
(c) Unless the Contracting Officer determines otherwise, the Government abandons all rights and title to unserviceable  
and scrap  property  resulting  from  contract  performance.  Upon  notification  to the Contracting  Officer, the 
Contractor shall remove such property from the Government premises and dispose of it at Contractor expense.  
 
(d) Except  as provided  in this clause,  Government  property  furnished  under  this contract  shall  be governed  by the 
Government Property clause of this contract.  
 
(e) Government  property  provided  under  this clause:  
 
To be completed  if GFP  is provided  for the performance  of a task order.  
 
(End  of clause)  
 
 
52.247 -1 COMMERCIAL  BILL  OF LADING  NOTATIONS  (FEB  2006)  
 
When the Contracting Officer authorizes supplies to be shipped on a commercial bill of lading and the Contractor will  
be reimbursed  these  transportation  costs  as direct  allowable  costs,  the Contractor  shall  ensure  before  shipment  is made 
that the commercial shipping documents are annotated with either of the following notations, as appropriate:  
(a) If the Government  is shown  as the consignor  or the consignee,  the annotation  shall  be: 
"Transportation  is for the * and the actual  total transportation  charges  paid to the carrier(s)  by the consignor  or 
consignee are assignable to, and shall be reimbursed by, the Government."  
(b) If the Government  is not shown  as the consignor  or the consignee,  the annotation  shall  be: 
"Transportation is for the * and the actual total transportation charges paid to the carrier(s) by the consignor or 
consignee  shall  be reimbursed  by the Government,  pursuant  to cost-reimbursement  contract  no. *. This may be 
confirmed by contacting *."  
* To be specified  in individual  task orders,  when  applicable  
 
(End  of clause)  
 
 
52.252 -2 CLAUSES  INCORPORATED  BY REFERENCE  (FEB  1998)  
 
This contract incorporates one or more  clauses by reference, with the same  force and effect as if they were given in 
full text. Upon  request,  the Contracting  Officer  will make  their full text available.  Also,  the full text of a clause  may be 
accessed electronically at this/these address(es):  
 
http://farsite.hill.af.mil/  
 
(End  of clause)  
 
 
52.252 -6 AUTHORIZED  DEVIATIONS  IN CLAUSES  (APR  1984)  
 
(a) The use in this solicitation  or contract  of any Federal  Acquisition  Regulation  (48 CFR  Chapter  1) clause  with an 
authorized deviation is indicated by the addition of "(DEVIATION)" after the date of the clause.   
 (b) The use in this solicitation  or contract  of any clause  with an authorized  deviation  is indicated  by the addition  of 
"(DEVIATION)" after the name of the regulation.  
 
(End  of clause)  
 
 
252.203 -7004  DISPLAY  OF HOTLINE  POSTERS  (OCT  2015)  
 
(a) Definition.  United  States,  as used in this clause,  means  the 50 States,  the District  of Columbia,  and outlying 
areas.  
(b) Display of fraud hotline poster(s). (1) The Contractor shall display prominently the DoD fraud hotline poster, 
prepared  by the DoD  Office  of the Inspector  General,  in common  work  areas  within  business  segments  performing 
work in the United States under Department of Defense (DoD) contracts.  
(2) If the contract  is funded,  in whole  or in part, by Department  of Homeland  Security  (DHS)  disaster  relief  funds, the 
DHS fraud hotline poster shall be displayed in addition to the DoD fraud hotline poster. If a display of a DHS fraud 
hotline poster is required, th e Contractor may obtain such poster from:  
http://www.dhs.gov/  
(c) Display of combating trafficking in persons and whistleblower protection hotline posters. The Contractor shall 
display prominently the DoD Combating Trafficking in Persons and Whistleblower Protection hotline posters, 
prepared  by the DoD  Office  of the Inspector  General,  in common  work  areas  within  business  segments  performing 
work under DoD contracts.  
(d)(1)  These  DoD  hotline  posters  may be obtained  from:  Defense  Hotline,  The Pentagon,  Washington,  DC 20301 - 
1900, or are also available via the internet at http://www.dodig.mil/hotline/hotline_posters.htm.  
(2) If a significant  portion  of the employee  workforce  does not speak  English,  then the posters  are to be displayed  in the 
foreign languages that a significant portion of the employees speak. Contact the DoD Inspector General at the 
address provided in paragraph (d)(1) of this clause if there is a requirement for employees to be notified of this 
clause and ass istance with translation is required.  
(3) Additionally,  if the Contractor  maintains  a company  Web  site as a method  of providing  information  to 
employees, the Contractor shall display an electronic version of these required posters at the Web site.  
(e) Subcontracts. The Contractor shall include the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (e), in all 
subcontracts  that exceed  $5.5 million  except  when  the subcontract  is for the acquisition of a commercial item.  
 
(End  of clause)  
 
 
252.211 -7003  ITEM  UNIQUE  IDENTIFICATION  AND  VALUATION  (DEC  2013)  
 
(a) Definitions.  As used in this clause'  
 
Automatic  identification  device  means  a device,  such as a reader  or interrogator,  used to retrieve  data encoded  on 
machine -readable media.  
 
Concatenated  unique  item identifier  means -- 
 
(1) For items that are serialized within the enterprise identifier, the linking together of the unique identifier data 
elements  in order  of the issuing  agency  code,  enterprise  identifier,  and unique  serial  number  within  the enterprise 
identifier; or  
(2) For items that are serialized within the original part, lot, or batch number, the linking together of the unique 
identifier  data elements  in order  of the issuing  agency  code;  enterprise  identifier;  original  part, lot, or batch  number; 
and serial number within the original part, lot, or batch number.  
 
Data  Matrix  means  a two-dimensional  matrix  symbology,  which  is made  up of square  or, in some  cases,  round 
modules arranged within a perimeter finder pattern and uses the Error Checking and Correction 200   
 (ECC200)  specification  found  within  International  Standards  Organization  (ISO)/International  Electrotechnical 
Commission (IEC) 16022.  
 
Data  qualifier  means  a specified  character  (or string  of characters)  that immediately  precedes  a data field that defines 
the general category or intended use of the data that follows.  
 
DoD  recognized  unique  identification  equivalent  means  a unique  identification  method  that is in commerci al use and 
has been recognized by DoD. All DoD recognized unique identification equivalents are listed at 
http://www.acq.osd.mil/dpap/pdi/uid/iuid_equivalents.html.  
 
DoD item unique identification means a system of marking items delivered to DoD with unique item identifiers that 
have machine -readable data elements to distinguish an item from all other like and unlike items. For items that are 
serialized within the enterprise identifier, the unique item identifier shall include the data elements of the enterprise 
identifier and a unique serial number. For items that are serialized within the part, lot, or batch number within the 
enterprise  ident ifier,  the unique  item identifier  shall  include  the data elements  of the enterprise  identifier;  the original 
part, lot, or batch number; and the serial number.  
 
Enterprise  means  the entity  (e.g.,  a manufacturer  or vendor)  responsible  for assigning  unique  item identifiers  to items.  
 
Enterprise  identifier  means  a code  that is uniquely  assigned  to an enterprise  by an issuing  agency. 
Government's unit acquisition cost means -- 
(1) For fixed -price  type line, subline,  or exhibit  line items,  the unit price  identified  in the contract  at the time of 
delivery;  
 
(2) For cost-type or undefinitized  line, subline,  or exhibit  line items,  the Contractor's  estimated  fully  burdened  unit 
cost to the Government at the time of delivery; and  
 
(3) For items  produced  under  a time-and-materials  contract,  the Contractor's  estimated  fully  burdened  unit cost to the 
Government at the time of delivery.  
 
Issuing agency means an organization responsible for assigning a globally unique identifier to an enterprise (e.g., Dun 
& Bradstree t's Data Universal Numbering System (DUNS) Number, GS1 Company Prefix, Allied Committee 135 
NATO Commercial and Government Entity (NCAGE)/Commercial and Government Entity (CAGE) Code, or the 
Coded Representation of the North American Telecommunications Ind ustry Manufacturers, Suppliers, and Related  
Service  Companies  (ATIS -0322000)  Number),  European  Health  Industry  Business  Communication  Council (EHIBCC) 
and Health Industry Business Communication Council (HIBCC)), as indicated in the Register of Issuing Agency 
Codes for ISO/IEC 15459, located at http://www.nen.nl/N ormontwikkeling/Certificatieschemas -en- 
keurmerken/Schemabeheer/ISOIEC -15459.htm.  
 
Issuing  agency  code  means  a code  that designates  the registration  (or controlling)  authority  for the enterprise identifier.  
 
Item means  a single  hardware  article  or a single  unit formed  by a grouping  of subassemblies,  components,  or 
constituent parts.  
 
Lot or batch  number  means  an identifying  number  assigned  by the enterprise  to a designated  group  of items,  usually 
referred to as either a lot or a batch, all of which were manufactured under identical conditions.  
Machine -readable  means  an automatic  identification  technology  media,  such as bar codes,  contact  memory  buttons, 
radio frequency identification, or optical memory cards.  
 
Original  part number  means  a combination  of numbers  or letters  assigned  by the enterprise  at item creation  to a class of 
items with the same form, fit, function, and interface.   
 Parent  item means  the item assembly,  intermediate  component,  or subassembly  that has an embedded  item with a 
unique item identifier or DoD recognized unique identification equivalent.  
 
Serial  number  within  the enterprise  identifier  means  a combination  of numbers,  letters,  or symbols  assigned  by the 
enterprise to an item that provides for the differentiation of that item from any other like and unlike item and is never 
used again within the enterprise.  
 
Serial number within the part, lot, or batch number means a combination of numbers or letters assig ned by the 
enterprise  to an item that provides  for the differentiation  of that item from  any other  like item within  a part, lot, or 
batch number assignment.  
 
Serialization  within  the enterprise  identifier  means  each item produced is assigned a  serial number that is unique 
among  all the tangible  items  produced  by the enterprise  and is never  used again.  The enterprise  is responsible  for 
ensuring unique serialization within the enterprise identifier.  
 
Serialization within the part, lot, or batch number me ans each item of a particular part, lot, or batch number is assigned  
a unique  serial  number  within  that part, lot, or batch  number  assignment.  The enterprise  is responsible  for ensuring 
unique serialization within the part, lot, or batch number within the enterprise identifier.  
 
Type designation means a combination of letters and numerals assigned by the Government to a major end item, 
assembly  or subassembly,  as appropriate,  to provide  a convenient  means  of differentiating  between  items  having  the 
same basic name and to indicate modifications and changes thereto.  
 
Unique  item identifier  means  a set of data elements  marked  on items  that is globally  unique  and unambiguous.  The 
term includes a concatenated unique item identifier or a DoD recognized unique identification equivalent.  
 
Unique  item identifier  type means  a designator  to indicate  which  method  of uniquely  identifying  a part has been used. 
The current list of accepted unique item identifier types is maintained at 
http://www.acq.osd.mil/dpap/pdi/uid/uii_types.html.  
 
(b) The Contracto r shall  deliver  all items  under  a contract  line, subline,  or exhibit  line item.  
 
(c) Unique  item identifier.  (1) The Contractor  shall  provide  a unique  item identifier  for the following:  
 
(i) Delivered  items  for which  the Government's  unit acquisition  cost is $5,000  or more,  except  for the following  line 
items:  
 
Contract  line, subline,  or exhibit line 
item No. Item description  
 
To be completed  at the task order  level,  when  applicable.  
 
 
(ii) Items  for which  the Government's  unit acquisition  cost is less than $5,000  that are identified  in the Schedule  or 
the following table:  
 
Contract  line, subline,  or exhibit line 
item No. Item description  
 
To be completed  at the task order  level,  when  applicable.  
...................................  
 
(If items  are identified  in the Schedule,  insert  ``See  Schedule''  in this table.)  
 
(iii) Subassemblies, components, and parts embedded within delivered items, items with warranty requirements, 
DoD  serially  managed  reparables  and DoD  serially  managed  nonreparables  as specified  in Attachment  Number  ----.  
 (iv) Any item of special  tooling  or special  test equipment  as defined  in FAR  2.101  that have  been  designated  for 
preservation and storage for a Major Defense Acquisition Program as specified in Attachment Number ----. 
 
(v) Any item not included  in paragraphs  (c)(1)(i),  (ii), (iii), or 
 
(iv) of this clause  for which  the contractor  creates  and marks  a unique  item identifier  for traceability.  
 
(2) The unique  item identifier  assignment  and its component  data element  combination  shall  not be duplicated  on 
any other item marked or registered in the DoD Item Unique Identification Registry by the contractor.  
 
(3) The unique  item identifier  component  data elements  shall  be marked  on an item using  two dimensional  data 
matrix symbology that complies with ISO/IEC International Standard 16022, Information  
technology --International  symbology  specification --Data  matrix;  ECC200  data matrix  specification.  
 
(4) Data  syntax  and semantics  of unique  item identifiers.  The Contractor  shall  ensure  that-- 
 
(i) The data elements  (except  issuing  agency  code)  of the unique  item identifier  are encoded  within  the data matrix 
symbol that is marked on the item using one of the following three types of data qualifiers, as determined by the 
Contractor:  
 
(A) Application  Identifiers  (AIs)  (Format  Indicator  05 of ISO/IEC  International  Standard  15434),  in accordance  with 
ISO/IEC In ternational Standard 15418, Information Technology --EAN/UCC Application Identifiers and Fact Data 
Identifiers and Maintenance and ANSI MH 10.8.2 Data Identifier and Application Identifier Standard.  
 
(B) Data  Identifiers  (DIs)  (Format  Indicator  06 of ISO/IEC  International  Standard  15434),  in accordance  with 
ISO/IEC International Standard 15418, Information Technology --EAN/UCC Application Identifiers  
and Fact Data  Identifiers  and Maintenance  and ANSI  MH 10.8.2  Data  Identifier  and Application  Identifier  Standard.  
 
(C) Text Element  Identifiers  (TEIs)  (Format  Indicator  12 of ISO/IEC  International  Standard  15434),  in accordance 
with the Air Transport Association Common Support Data Dictionary; and  
 
(ii) The encoded  data elements  of the unique  item identifier  conform to the transfer  structure, syntax, and coding of 
messages  and data formats  specified  for Format  Indicators  05, 06, and 12 in ISO/IEC  International  Standard  15434, 
Information Technology -Transfer Syntax for High Capacity Automatic Data Capture Media.  
 
(5) Unique  item identifier.  
 
(i) The Contractor  shall -- 
 
(A) Determine  whether  to-- 
 
(1) Serialize  within  the enterprise  identifier;  
 
(2) Serialize  within  the part, lot, or batch  number;  or 
 
(3) Use a DoD  recognized  unique  identification  equivalent  (e.g. Vehicle  Identification  Number);  and 
 
(B) Place  the data elements  of the unique  item identifier  (enterprise  identifier;  serial  number;  DoD  recognized 
unique  
identification equivalent; and  for serialization within the part, lot, or batch number only: Original part, lot, or batch 
number)  on items  requiring  marking  by paragraph  (c)(1)  of this clause,  based  on the criteria  provided  in MIL-STD - 130, 
Identification Marking of U.S. Military Property, latest version;  
 
(C) Label  shipments,  storage  containers  and packages  that contain  uniquely  identified  items  in accordance  with the 
requirements of MIL -STD -129, Military Marking for Shipment and S torage, latest version; and   
 (D) Verify  that the marks  on items  and labels  on shipments,  storage  containers,  and packages  are machine -readable and  
conform  to the applicable  standards.  The contractor  shall  use an automatic  identification  technology  device  for this 
verification that has been programmed to the requirements of Appendix A, MIL -STD -130, latest  
version.  
 
(ii) The issuing  agency  code -- 
 
(A) Shall  not be placed  on the item;  and 
 
(B) Shall  be derived  from  the data qualifier  for the enterprise  identifier.  
 
(d) For each item that requires  item unique  identification  under  paragraph  (c)(1)(i),  (ii), or (iv) of this clause  or when 
item unique identification is provided under paragraph (c)(1)(v), in addition to the information provided as part of 
the Material Inspection and Receiving Report specified elsewhere in this contract, the Contractor shall report at the 
time of delivery, as part of the Material Inspection and Receiving Report, the following information:  
 
(1) Unique item identifier.  
 
(2) Unique  item identifier type.  
 
(3) Issuing  agency  code  (if concatenated  unique  item identifier  is used).  
 
(4) Enterprise  identifier  (if concatenated  unique  item identifier  is used).  
 
(5) Original  part number  (if there  is serialization  within  the original  part number).  
 
(6) Lot or batch  number  (if there  is serialization  within  the lot or batch  number).  
 
(7) Current  part number  (optional  and only if not the same  as the original  part number).  
 
(8) Current  part number  effective  date (optional  and only if current  part number  is used).  
 
(9) Serial  number  (if concatenated  unique  item identifier  is used).  
 
(10) Government's  unit acquisition  cost. 
 
(11) Unit of measure.  
 
(e) For embedded subassemblies, components, and parts that require DoD unique item identification under paragraph  
(c)(1)(iii)  of this clause,  the Contractor  shall  report  as part of, or associated  with,  the Material  Inspection and 
Receiving Report specified elsewhere in this contract, the following information:  
 
(1) Unique  item identifier  of the parent  item under  paragraph  (c)(1)  of this clause  that contains  the embedded 
subassembly, component, or part.  
 
(2) Unique  item identifier  of the embedded  subassembly,  component,  or part. 
 
(3) Unique  item identifier  type.**  
 
(4) Issuing  agency  code  (if concatenated  unique  item identifier  is used).**  
(5) Enterprise  identifier  (if concatenated  unique  item identifier  is used).**  
 
(6) Original  part number  (if there  is serialization  within  the original  part number).**  
 
(7) Lot or batch  number  (if there  is serialization  within  the lot or batch  number).**  
 
(8) Current  part number  (optional  and only if not the same  as the original  part number).**   
 (9) Current  part number  effective  date (optional  and only if current  part number  is used).**  
 
(10) Serial  number  (if concatenated  unique  item identifier  is used).**  
 
(11) Description.  
 
(12) Type  designation  of the item as specified  in the contract  schedule,  if any. 
 
(13) Whether  the item is an item of Special  Tooling  or Special  Test Equipment.  
 
(14) Whether  the item is covered  by a warranty.  
 
** Once  per item.  
 
(e) For embedded  subassemblies,  components,  and parts  that require  DoD  item unique  identification  under 
paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this clause or when item unique identification is provided under paragraph  
(c)(1)(v),  the Contractor  shall  report  as part of the Material  Inspection  and Receiving  Report  specified  elsewhere  in 
this contract, the following information:  
 
(f) The Contractor  shall  submit  the information  required  by paragraphs  (d) and (e) of this clause  as follows:  
 
(1) End items  shall  be reported  using  the receiving  report  capability  in Wide  Area  WorkFlow  (WAWF)  in 
accordance with the clause at 252.232 -7003. If WAWF is not required by this contract, and the  
contractor  is not using  WAWF,  follow  the procedures  at http://dodprocurementtoolbox.com/site/uidregistry/.  
 
(2) Embedded  items  shall  be reported  by one of the following  methods -- 
 
(i) Use of the embedded  items  capability  in WAWF;  
 
(ii) Direct  data submission  to the IUID  Registry  following  the procedures  and formats  at 
http://dodprocurementtoolbox.com/site/uidregistry/;  or 
 
(iii) Via WAWF  as a deliverable  attachment  for exhibit  line item number  (fill in) ----- , Unique  Item Identifier  Report  
for Embedded  Items,  Contract  Data  Requirements  List, DD Form  1423.  
 
(g) Subcontracts. If the Contractor acquires by contract any items for which item unique identification is required in 
accordance  with paragraph  (c)(1)  of this clause,  the Contractor  shall  include  this clause,  including  this paragraph  (g), 
in the applicable subcontract(s), including subcontracts for commercial items.  
 
(End  of clause)  
 
 
 
252.216 -7006  ORDERING  (MAY  2011)  
 
(a) Any supplies and services to be furnished under this contract shall be  ordered by issuance of delivery orders or 
task orders  by the individuals  or activities  designated  in the contract  schedule.  Such  orders  may be issued  from  See 
Section F2.  
(b) All delivery  orders  or task orders  are subject  to the terms  and conditions  of this contract.  In the event  of conflict 
between a delivery order or task order and this contract, the contract shall control.  
 
(c)(1)  If issued  electronically,  the order  is considered  ``issued''  when  a copy  has been  posted  to the Electronic 
Document Access system, and notice has been sent to the Contractor.   
 (2) If mailed  or transmitted  by facsimile,  a delivery  order  or task order  is considered  ``issued''  when  the Government 
deposits  the order  in the mail or transmits  by facsimile.  Mailing  includes  transmittal  by U.S. mail or private  delivery 
services.  
 
(3) Orders  may be issued  orally  only if authorized  in the 
schedule.  
 
(End  of Clause)  
 
 
252.217 -7000  EXERCISE  OF OPTION  TO FULFILL  FOREIGN  MILITARY  SALES  COMMITMENTS --BASIC 
(NOV 2014)  
 
(a) The Government  may exercise  the option(s)  of this contract  to fulfill  foreign  military  sales  commitments.  
 
(b) The foreign  military  sales  commitments  are for: 
 
* To be completed  at the task order  level,  when  applicable.  
 
(End  of clause)  
 
 
 
252.223 -7007  SAFEGUARDING  SENSITIVE  CONVENTIONAL  ARMS,  AMMUNITION,  AND  EXPLOSIVES 
(SEP 1999)  
 
(a) Definition.  
 
"Arms,  ammunition,  and explosives  (AA&E),"  as used in this clause,  means  those  items  within  the scope  (chapter  1, paragraph 
B) of DoD 5100.76 -M, Physical Security of  Sensitive Conventional Arms, Ammunition, and Explosives.  
 
(b) The requirements of DoD 5100.76 -M apply to the following items of AA&E being developed, produced, 
manufactured,  or purchased  for the Government,  or provided  to the Contractor  as Government -furnished  property 
under this contract:  
 
NOMENCLATURE  NATIONAL  STOCK  SENSITIVITY  
NUMBER  CATEGORY  
 
To be determined  at the task order  level,  when  applicable.  
(c) The Contractor  shall  comply  with the requirements  of DoD  5100.76 -M, as specified  in the statement  of work. 
The edition of DoD 5100.76 -M in effect on the date of issuance of the solicitation for this contract shall apply.  
 
(d) The Contractor  shall  allow  representatives  of the Defense  Security  Service  (DSS),  and representatives  of other 
appropriate offices of the Government, access at all reasonable times into its facil ities and those of its 
subcontractors, for the purpose of performing surveys, inspections, and investigations necessary to review 
compliance with the physical security standards applicable to this contract.  
 
(e) The Contractor  shall  notify  the cognizant  DSS field office  of any subcontract  involving  AA&E  within  10 days 
after award of the subcontract.  
(f) The Contractor  shall  ensure  that the requirements  of this clause  are included  in all subcontracts,  at every  tier-- 
 
(1) For the development,  production,  manufacture,  or purchase  of AA&E;  or 
 
(2) When  AA&E  will be provided  to the subcontractor  as Government -furnished  property.   
 (g) Nothing in this clause shall relieve the Contractor of its responsibility for complying with applicable Federal, state,  
and local  laws,  ordinances,  codes,  and regulations  (including  requirements  for obtaining  licenses  and permits) in 
connection with the performance of this contract.  
 
(End  of clause)  
 
 
 
252.225 -7027  RESTRICTION  ON CONTINGENT  FEES  FOR  FOREIGN  MILITARY  SALES  (APR  2003)  
 
(a) Except  as provided  in paragraph  (b) of this clause,  contingent  fees, as defined  in the Covenant  Against 
Contingent Fees clause of this contract, are generally an allowable cost, provided the fees are paid to -- 
 
(1) A bona  fide employee  of the Contractor;  or 
 
(2) A bona  fide established  commercial  or selling  agency  maintained  by the Contractor  for the purpose  of securing 
business.  
 
(b) For foreign  military  sales,  unless  the contingent  fees have  been  identified  and payment  approved  in writing  by the 
foreign customer before contract award, the following contingent fees are unallowable under this contract:  
 
(1) For sales  to the Government(s)  of To be completed  at the task order  level,  when  applicable , contingent  fees in 
any amount.  
 
(2) For sales  to Governments  not listed  in paragraph  (b)(1)  of this clause,  contingent  fees exceeding  $50,000  per 
foreign military sale case.  
 
(End  of Clause)  
 
 
252.225 -7040  CONTRACTOR  PERSONNEL  SUPPORTING  U.S. ARMED  FORCES  DEPLOYED  OUTSIDE THE 
UNITED STATES (OCT 2015)  
 
(a) Definitions.  As used in this clause -- 
 
Combatant  Commander  means  the commander  of a unified  or specified  combatant  command  established  in accordance 
with 10 U.S.C. 161.  
 
Contractors authorized to accompany the Force, or CAAF, means contractor personnel, including all tiers of 
subcontractor  personnel,  who are authorized to accompany  U.S. Armed  Forces  in applicable  operations  and have 
been afforded CAAF status through a letter of authorization. CAAF generally include all U.S. citizen and third - 
country  national  employees  not normally  residing  within  the operational  area whose  area of performance  is in the 
direct vicinity of U.S. Armed Forces and who routinely are collocated with the U.S. Armed Forces (especially in 
non-permissi ve environments). Personnel collocated with  
U.S. Armed  Forces  shall  be afforded  CAAF  status  through  a letter  of authorization.  In some  cases,  Combatant 
Commander subordinate commanders may designate mission -essential host nation or local  
national contractor employees (e.g., interpreters) as CAAF. CAAF includes contractors previously identified as 
contractors  deploying  with the U.S. Armed  Forces.  CAAF  status  does not apply  to contractor  personnel  in support  of 
applicable operations within the boundaries and territories of the United States.  
Designated  operational  area means  a geographic  area designated  by the combatant  commander  or subordinate  joint 
force commander for the conduct or support of specified military operations.  
 
Designated  reception  site means  the designated  place  for the reception,  staging,  integration,  and onward  movement of 
contractors deploying during a contingency.  The designated reception site includes assigned joint reception centers 
and other Service or private reception sites.   
 Law of war means that part of international law that regulates the conduct of armed hostilities. The law of war 
encompasses  all international  law for the conduct  of hostilities  binding  on the United  States  or its individual  citizens, 
including treaties and international agreements to which the United States is a party, and applicable customary 
international law.  
 
Non-CAAF  means  personnel  who are not designated  as CAAF,  such as local  national  (LN)  employees  and non-LN 
employees who are permanent residents in the operational area or third -country nationals not  
routinely residing with U.S. Armed Fo rces (and third -country national expatriates who are permanent residents in the  
operational  area)  who perform  support  functions  away  from  the close  proximity  of, and do not reside  with,  U.S. Armed 
Forces. Government -furnished support to non -CAAF is typically limited to force protection, emergency medical care, 
and basic human needs (e.g., bottled water, latrine facilities,  
security,  and food when  necessary)  when  performing  their jobs in the direct  vicinity  of U.S. Armed  Forces.  Non- 
CAAF  status  does not apply  to contractor  personnel  in support  of applicable  operations  within  the 
boundaries and territories of the United States.  
 
Subordinate  joint force  commander  means  a sub-unified  commander  or joint task force  commander.  
 
(b) General.  
 
(1) This clause  applies  to both CAAF  and non-CAAF  when  performing  in a designated  operational  area outside  the 
United States to support U.S. Armed Forces deployed outside the United States in -- 
 
(i) Contingency  operations;  
 
(ii) Peace  operations,  consistent  with Joint  Publication  3-07.3;  or 
 
(iii) Other  military  operations  or military  exercises,  when  designated  by the Combatant  Commander  or as directed 
by the Secretary of Defense.  
 
(2) Contract  performance  in support  of U.S. Armed  Forces  deployed  outside  the United  States  may require  work  in 
dangerous or austere conditions. Except as otherwise provided in the contract, the Contractor accepts the risks 
associated with required contract performance in such operations.  
 
(3) When  authorized  in accordance  with paragraph  (j) of this clause  to carry  arms  for personal  protection,  Contractor 
personnel are only authorized to use force for individual self -defense.  
 
(4) Unless immune from host nation jurisdiction by virtue of an international agreement or international law, 
inappropriate  use of force  by contractor  personnel  supporting  the U.S. Armed  Forces  can subject  such personnel  to 
United States or host nation prosecution and civil liability (see paragraphs (d) and (j)(3) of this clause).  
 
(5) Service  performed  by Contractor  personnel  subject  to this clause  is not active  duty or service  under  38 U.S.C. 
106 note.  
 
(c) Support.  
 
(1)(i)  The Combatant  Commander  will develop  a security  plan for protection  of Contractor  personnel  in locations 
where there is not sufficient or legitimate civil authority, when the Combatant Commander decides it is in the interests 
of the Government to provide security because -- 
 
(A) The Contractor  cannot  obtain  effective  security  services;  
(B) Effective  security  services  are unavailable  at a reasonable  cost;  or 
 
(C) Threat  conditions  necessitate  security  through  military  means.  
 
(ii) In appropriate  cases,  the Combatant  Commander  may provide  security  through  military  means,  commensurate with 
the level of security provided DoD civilians.   
 (2)(i) Generally, CAAF will be afforded emergency medical and dental care if injured while supporting applicable 
operations. Additionally, non -CAAF employees who are injured while in the vicinity of U.S. Armed Forces will 
normally receive emergency medical and dental care. Emergency medical and dental care includes medical care 
situations in which life, limb, or eyesight is jeopardized. Examples of emergency medical and dental care include 
examination  and initial  treatment  of victim s of sexual  assault;  refills  of prescriptions  for life-dependent  drugs;  repair of 
broken bones, lacerations, infections; and traumatic injuries to the dentition. Hospitalization will be limited to 
stabilization and short -term medical treatment with an emphasis on return to duty or placement in the patient 
movement system.  
 
(ii) When  the Government  provides  medical  treatment  or transportation  of Contractor  personnel  to a selected  civilian 
facility, the Contractor shall ensure that the Government is reimb ursed for any costs associated with such treatment or 
transportation.  
 
(iii) Medical  or dental  care beyond  this standard  is not authorized.  
 
(3) Contractor personnel must have a Synchronized Predeployment and Operational Tracker (SPOT) -generated letter  
of authorization  signed  by the Contracting  Officer  in order  to process  through  a deployment  center  or to travel to, 
from, or within the designated operational area. The letter of authorization also will identify any additional 
autho rizations, privileges, or Government support that Contractor personnel are entitled to under this contract.  
Contractor  personnel  who are issued  a letter  of 
authorization  shall  carry  it with them  at all times  while  deployed.  
 
(4) Unless  specified  elsewhere  in this contract,  the Contractor  is responsible  for all other  support  required  for its 
personnel engaged in the designated operational area under this contract.  
 
(d) Compliance  with laws and regulations.  (1) The Contractor  shall  comply  with,  and shall  ensure  that its personnel 
supporting  U.S. Armed  Forces  deployed  outside  the United  States  as specified  in paragraph  (b)(1)  of this clause  are 
familiar with and comply with, all applicable -- 
 
(i) United  States,  host country,  and third  country  national  laws;  
 
(ii) Provisions  of the law of war, as well as any other  applicable  treaties  and international  agreements;  
 
(iii) United  States  regulations,  directives,  instructions,  policies,  and procedures;  and 
 
(iv) Orders,  directives,  and instructions  issued  by the Combatant  Commander,  including  those  relating  to force 
protection, security, health, safety, or relations and interaction with local nationals.  
 
(2) The Contractor shall institute and implement an effective program to prevent violations  of the law of war by its 
employees  and subcontractors,  including  law of war training  in accordance  with paragraph  (e)(1)(vii)  of this clause.  
 
(3) The Contractor  shall  ensure  that CAAF  and non-CAAF  are aware -- 
 
(i) Of the DoD  definition  of ``sexual  assault''  in DoD  Directive  6495.01,  Sexual  Assault  Prevention  and Response 
Program;  
 
(ii) That many of the offenses addressed by the definition are covered under the Uniform Code of Military Justice 
(see paragraph  (e)(2)(iv)  of this clause).  Other  sexual  misconduct  may constitute  offenses  under  the Uniform  Code 
of Military Justice, Federal law, such as the Military Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Act, or host nation laws;  
 
(iii) That the offenses  not covered  by the Uniform  Code  of Military  Justice  may nevertheless  have  consequences  to 
the contractor employees (see paragraph (h)(1) of this clause).  
 
(4) The Contractor  shall  report  to the appropriate  investigative  authorities,  identified  in paragraph  (d)(6)  of this 
clause, any alleged offenses under —  
 (i) The Uniform  Code  of Military  Justice  (chapter  47 of title 10, United  States  Code)  (applicable  to contractors 
serving with or accompanying an armed force in the field during a declared war or  
contingency  operations);  or 
 
(ii) The Military  Extraterritorial  Jurisdiction  Act (chapter  212 of title 18, United  States  Code).  
 
(5) The Contractor  shall  provide  to all contractor  personnel  who will perform  work  on a contract  in the deployed 
area, before beginning such work, information on the following:  
 
(i) How  and where  to report  an alleged  crime  described  in paragraph  (d)(4)  of this clause.  
 
(ii) Where  to seek victim  and witness  protection  and assistance  available  to contractor  personnel  in connection  with 
an alleged offense described in paragraph (d)(4) of this clause.  
 
(iii) That this section  does not create  any rights  or privileges  that are not authorized  by law or DoD  policy.  
 
(6) The appropriate  investigative  authorities  to which  suspected  crimes  shall  be reported  include  the following — 
 
(i) US Army  Criminal  Investigation  Command  at http://www.cid.army.mil/reportacrime.html;  
 
(ii) Air Force Office of Special Investigations at 
http://www.osi.andrews.af.mil/library/factsheets/factsheet.asp?id=14522;  
 
(iii) Navy  Criminal  Investigative  Service  at http://www.ncis.navy.mil/Pages/publicdefault.aspx;  
 
(iv) Defense  Criminal  Investigative  Service  at http://www.dodig.mil/HOTLINE/index.html;  
 
(v) To any command  of any supported  military  element  or the command  of any base.  
 
(7) Personnel  seeking  whistleblower  protection  from  reprisals  for reporting  criminal  acts shall  seek guidance 
through the DoD Inspector General hotline at 800 -424-9098 or www.dodig.mil/HOTLINE/index.html.  
 
Personnel  seeking  other  forms  of victim  or witness  protections  should  contact  the nearest  military  law enforcement 
office.  
 
(8)(i)  The Contractor  shall  ensure  that Contractor  employees  supporting  the U.S. Armed  Forces  are aware  of their rights 
to-- 
 
(A) Hold  their own identity  or immigration  documents,  such as passport  or driver's  license,  regardless  of the 
documents' issuing authority;  
 
(B) Receive  agreed  upon  wages  on time;  
 
(C) Take  lunch  and work -breaks;  
 
(D) Elect  to terminate  employment  at any time;  
 
(E) Identify  grievances  without  fear of reprisal;  
 
(F) Have  a copy  of their employment  contract  in a language  they understand;  
 
(G) Receive  wages  that are not below  the legal  host-country  minimum  wage;  
 
(H) Be notified  of their rights,  wages,  and prohibited  activities  prior  to signing  their employment  contract;  and 
 
(I) If housing  is provided,  live in housing  that meets  host-country  housing  and safety  standards.   
 (ii) The Contractor  shall  post these  rights  in employee  work  spaces  in English  and in any foreign  language(s)  spoken by 
a significant portion of the workforce.  
 
(iii) The Contractor  shall  enforce  the rights  of Contractor  personnel  supporting  the U.S. Armed  Forces.  
 
(e) Preliminary  personnel  requirements.  
 
(1) The Contractor  shall  ensure  that the following  requirements  are met prior  to deploying  CAAF  (specific 
requirements for each category will be specified in the statement of work or elsewhere in the contract):  
 
(i) All required  security  and background  checks  are comp lete and acceptable.  
 
(ii) All CAAF  deploying  in support  of an applicable  operation — 
 
(A) Are medically,  dentally,  and psychologically  fit for deployment  and performance  of their contracted  duties;  
 
(B) Meet the minimum medical screening requirements, including theater -specific medical qualifications as 
established  by the geographic  Combatant  Commander  (as posted  to the Geographic  Combatant  Commander’s 
website or other venue); and  
 
(C) Have  received  all required  immunizations  as specified  in the contract.  
 
(1) During  predeployment  processing,  the Government  will provide,  at no cost to the Contractor,  any military - 
specific immunizations and/or medications not available to the general public.  
 
(2) All other  immunizations  shall  be obtained  prior  to arrival  at the deployment  center.  
 
(3) All CAAF  and selected  non-CAAF,  as specified  in the statement  of work,  shall  bring  to the designated 
operational area a copy of the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Form 731,  
International  Certificate  of Vaccination  or Prophylaxis  as Approved  by the World  Health  Organization,  (also  known as 
``shot record'' or ``Yellow Card'') that shows vaccinations are current.  
 
(iii) Deploying personnel have all necessary passports, visas, and other documents required to enter and exit a 
designated  operational  area and have  a Geneva  Conventions  identification  card,  or other  appropriate  DoD  identity 
credential, from the deployment center.  
 
(iv) Special  area,  country,  and theater  clearance  is obtained  for all personnel  deploying.  Clearance  requirements  are 
in DoD Directive 4500.54E, DoD Foreign Clearance Program. For this purpose, CAAF are considered non -DoD 
contactor personnel traveling under DoD sponsorship.  
 
(v) All deploying  personnel  have  received  personal  security  training.  At a minimum,  the training  shall— 
 
(A) Cover  safety  and security  issues  facing  employees  overseas;  
 
(B) Identify  safety  and security  contingency  planning  activities;  and 
 
(C) Identify  ways  to utilize  safety  and security  personnel  and other  resources  appropriately.  
 
(vi) All personnel  have  received  isolated  personnel  training,  if specified  in the contract,  in accordance  with DoD 
Instruction 1300.23, Isolated Personnel Training for DoD Civilian and Contractors.  
 
(vii) Personnel  have  received  law of war training  as follows:  
 
(A) Basic  training  is required  for all CAAF.  The basic  training  will be provided  through — 
 
(1) A military -run training  center;  or  
 (2) A web-based  source,  if specified  in the contract  or approved  by the Contracting  Officer.  
 
(B) Advanced  training,  commensurate  with their duties  and responsibilities,  may be required  for some  Contractor 
personnel as specified in the contract.  
 
(2) The Contractor  shall  notify  all personnel  who are not a host country  national,  or who are not ordinarily  resident in 
the host country, that — 
 
(i) Such employees,  and dependents  residing with  such employees,  who engage  in conduct outside the  United States 
that would constitute an offense punishable by imprisonment for more than one year if the conduct had been 
engaged in within the special maritime and territorial jurisdiction of the United States, may potentially be subject to 
the criminal  jurisdiction  of the United  States  in accordance  with the Military  Extraterritorial  Jurisdiction  Act of 2000 
(18 U.S.C. 3621, et seq .); 
 
(ii) Pursuant  to the War Crimes  Act (18 U.S.C.  2441),  Federal  criminal  jurisdiction  also extends  to conduct  that is 
determined to constitute a war crime when committed by a civilian national of the United States;  
 
(iii) Other laws may provide for prosecution of U.S. nationals who commit offenses on the premises of U.S. 
diplomatic,  consular,  military  or other  U.S. Government  missions  outside  the United  States  (18 U.S.C.  7(9));  and 
 
(iv) In time of declared  war or a contingency  operation,  CAAF  are subject  to the jurisdiction  of the Uniform  Code  of 
Military Justice under 10 U.S.C. 802(a)(10).  
 
(v) Such  employees  are required  to report  offenses  alleged  to have  been  committed  by or against  Contractor 
personnel to appropriate investigative authorities.  
 
(vi) Such  employees  will be provided  victim  and witness  protection  and assistance.  
 
(f) Processing  and departure  points.  CAAF  shall -- 
 
(1) Process  through  the deployment  center  designated  in the contract,  or as otherwise  directed  by the Contracting 
Officer, prior to deploying. The deployment center will conduct deployment processing to ensure visibility and 
accountability of Contractor personnel and to ensure that all deployment requirements are m et, including the 
requirements specified in paragraph (e)(1) of this clause;  
 
(2) Use the point  of departure  and transportation  mode  directed  by the Contracting  Officer;  and 
 
(3) Process  through  a designated  reception  site (DRS)  upon  arrival  at the deployed  location.  The DRS  will validate 
personnel accountability, ensure that specific designated operational area entrance requirements are met, and brief 
Contractor personnel on theater -specific policies and procedures.  
 
(g) Personnel  data. 
 
(1) The Contractor  shall  use the Synchronized  Predeployment  and Operational  Tracker  (SPOT)  web-based  system, 
to enter and maintain the data for all CAAF and, as designated by USD (AT&L) or the Combatant  
Commander,  non-CAAF  supporting  U.S. Armed  Forces  deployed  outside  the United  States  as specified  in paragraph 
(b)(1) of this clause.  
 
(2) The Contractor  shall  enter  the required  information  about  their contractor  personnel  prior  to deployment  and 
shall continue to use the SPOT web -based system at https://spot.dmdc.mil  
to maintain  accurate,  up-to-date information  throughout  the deployment  for all Contractor  personnel.  Changes  to status 
of individual Contractor personnel relating to their in -theater arrival date and their duty  
location,  to include  closing  out the deployment  with their proper  status  (e.g.,  mission  complete,  killed,  wounded) shall 
be annotated within the SPOT data base in accordance with the timelines established  
in the SPOT  Business  Rules  at http://www.acq.osd.mil/log/PS/ctr_mgt_accountability.html.  
 
(h) Contractor  personnel.   
 (1) The Contracting Officer may direct the Contractor, at its own expense, to remove and replace any Contractor 
personnel who jeo pardize or interfere with mission accomplishment or who fail to comply with or violate applicable 
requirements  of this contract.  Such  action  may be taken  at the Government's  discretion  without  prejudice  to its rights 
under any other provision of this contract, including the Termination for Default clause.  
 
(2) The Contractor  shall  identify  all personnel  who occupy  a position  designated  as mission  essential  and ensure  the 
continuity of essential Contractor services during designated operations, unless, afte r consultation with the 
Contracting Officer, Contracting Officer's representative, or local commander, the Contracting Officer directs 
withdrawal due to security conditions.  
 
(3) The Contractor  shall  ensure  that Contractor  personnel  follow  the guidance  at paragraph  (e)(2)(v)  of this clause 
and any specific Combatant Commander guidance on reporting offenses alleged to have been  
committed  by or against  Contractor  personnel  to appropriate  investigative  authorities.  
 
(4) Contractor  personnel  shall  return  all U.S. Government -issued  identification,  to include  the Common  Access 
Card, to appropriate U.S. Government authorities at the end of their deployment (or, for non - 
CAAF,  at the end of their employment  under  this contract).  
 
(i) Military  clothing  and protective  equipment.  
 
(1) Contractor  personnel  are prohibited  from  wearing  military  clothing  unless  specifically  authorized  in writing  by 
the Combatant Commander. If authorized to wear military clothing, Contractor personnel must — 
 
(i) Wear  distinctive  patches,  arm bands,  nametags,  or headgear,  in order  to be distinguishable  from  military 
personnel, consistent with force protection measures; and  
 
(ii) Carry  the written  authorization  with them  at all times.  
 
(2) Contractor  personnel  may wear  military -unique  organizational  clothing  and individual  equipment  (OCIE) 
required for safety and security, such as ballistic, nuclear, biological, or chemical protective equipment.  
 
(3) The deployment  center,  or the Combatant  Commander,  shall  issue  OCIE  and shall  provide  training,  if necessary, 
to ensure the safety and security of Contractor personnel.  
 
(4) The Contractor  shall  ensure  that all issued  OCIE  is returned  to the point  of issue,  unless  otherwise  directed  by the 
Contracting Officer.  
 
(j) Weapons.  
 
(1) If the Contractor  requests  that its personnel  performing  in the designated  operational  area be authorized  to carry 
weapons for individual self -defense, the request shall be made through the Contracting Officer to the Combatant 
Commander, in accordance with DoD In struction 3020.41, Operational Contractor Support. The Combatant 
Commander will determine whether to authorize in -theater Contractor personnel to carry weapons and what 
weapons and ammunition will be allowed.  
 
(2) If Contractor  personnel  are authorized  to carry  weapons  in accordance  with paragraph  (j)(1)  of this clause,  the 
Contracting Officer will notify the Contractor what weapons and ammunition are authorized.  
 
(3) The Contractor  shall  ensure  that its personnel  who are authorized  to carry  weapo ns— 
(i) Are adequately  trained  to carry  and use them — 
 
(A) Safely;  
 
(B) With  full understanding  of, and adherence  to, the rules  of the use of force  issued  by the Combatant  Commander; 
and  
 (C) In compliance  with applicable  agency  policies,  agreements,  rules,  regulations,  and other  applicable  law; 
 
(ii) Are not barred  from  possession  of a firearm  by 18 U.S.C.  922; 
 
(iii) Adhere  to all guidance  and orders  issued  by the Combatant  Commander  regarding  possession,  use, safety,  and 
accountability of weapons and ammunition;  
 
(iv) Comply  with applicable  Combatant  Commander  and local  commander  force -protection  policies;  and 
 
(v) Understand  that the inappropriate  use of force  could  subject  them  to U.S. or host-nation  prosecution  and civil 
liability.  
 
(4) Whether  or not weapons  are Government -furnished,  all liability  for the use of any weapon  by Contractor 
personnel rests solely with the Contractor and the Contractor employee using such weapon.  
 
(5) Upon redeployment or revocation by the Combatant Commander of the Contractor’s authorization to issue 
firearms,  the Contractor  shall  ensure  that all Government -issued  weapons  and unexpended  ammunition  are returned 
as directed by the Contracting Officer.  
 
(k) Vehicle  or equipment  licenses.  Contractor  personnel  shall  possess  the required  licenses  to operate  all vehicles  or 
equipment necessary to perform the contract in the designated operational area.  
 
(l) Purchase of scarce goods and services. If the Combatant Commander has established an organi zation for the 
designated operational area whose function is to determine that certain items are scarce goods or services, the 
Contractor  shall  coordinate  with that organization  local  purchases  of goods  and services  designated  as scarce,  in 
accordance with instructions provided by the Contracting Officer.  
 
(m) Evacuation.  
 
(1) If the Combatant  Commander  orders  a mandatory  evacuation  of some  or all personnel,  the Government  will 
provide assistance, to the extent available,  to United States and third country national Contractor personnel.  
 
(2) In the event  of a non-mandatory  evacuation  order,  unless  authorized  in writing  by the Contracting  Officer,  the 
Contractor shall maintain personnel on location sufficient to meet obligations under this contract.  
 
(n) Next  of kin notification  and personnel  recovery.  
 
(1) The Contractor  shall  be responsible  for notification  of the employee -designated  next of kin in the event  an 
employee dies, requires evacuation due to an injury, or is isolated, missing, detained, captured, or abducted.  
 
(2) In the case of isolated,  missing,  detained,  captured,  or abducted  Contractor  personnel,  the Government  will assist 
in personnel recovery actions in accordance with DoD Directive 3002.01E, Personnel Recovery in the Department 
of Defense.  
 
(o) Mortuary  affairs.  Contractor  personnel  who die while  in support  of the U.S. Armed  Forces  shall  be covered  by 
the DoD mortuary affairs program as described in DoD Directive 1300.22, Mortuary Affairs Policy, and DoD 
Instruction 3020.41, Operational Contractor Support.  
 
(p) Changes.  In addition  to the changes  otherwise  authorized  by the Changes  clause  of this contract,  the Contracting 
Officer  may,  at any time,  by written  order  identified  as a change  order,  make  changes  in the place  of performance  or 
Government -furnished facilities, equipment,  material, services, or site. Any change order issued in accordance with 
this paragraph (p) shall be subject to the provisions of the Changes clause of this contr act. 
 
(q) Subcontracts.  The Contractor  shall  incorporate  the substance  of this clause,  including  this paragraph  (q), in all 
subcontracts when subcontractor personnel are supporting U.S. Armed Forces deployed  
outside  the United  States  in--  
 (1) Contingency  operations;  
 
(2) Peace  operations  consistent  with Joint  Publication  3-07.3;  or 
 
(3) Other  military  operations  or military  exercises,  when  designated  by the Combatant  Commander  or as directed  by 
the Secretary of Defense.  
 
(End  of clause)  
 
 
 
252.225 -7043  ANTITERRORISM/FORCE  PROTECTION  POLICY  FOR  DEFENSE  CONTRACTORS  OUTSIDE 
THE UNITED STATES (JUN 2015)  
 
(a) Definition.  United  States,  as used in this clause,  means,  the 50 States,  the District  of Columbia,  and outlying 
areas.  
 
(b) Except  as provided  in paragraph  (c) of this clause,  the Contractor  and its subcontractors,  if performing  or 
traveling outside the United States under this contract, shall -- 
 
(1) Affiliate  with the Overseas  Security  Advisory  Council,  if the Contractor  or subcontractor  is a U.S. entity;  
 
(2) Ensure  that Contractor  and subcontractor  personnel  who are U.S. nationals  and are in-country  on a non-transitory 
basis, register with the U.S. Embassy, and that Contractor and subcontractor personnel who are third country 
nationals comply with any security related requirements of the Embassy of their nationality;  
 
(3) Provide, to Contractor and subcontract or personnel, antiterrorism/force protection awareness information 
commensurate  with that which  the Department  of Defense  (DoD)  provides  to its military  and civilian  personnel  and 
their families, to the extent such information can be made available prior t o travel outside the United States; and  
 
(4) Obtain  and comply  with the most  current  antiterrorism/force  protection  guidance  for Contractor  and 
subcontractor personnel.  
 
(c) The requirements  of this clause  do not apply  to any subcontractor  that is-- 
 
(1) A foreign  government;  
 
(2) A representative  of a foreign  government;  or 
 
(3) A foreign  corporation  wholly  owned  by a foreign  government.  
 
(d) Information  and guidance  pertaining  to DoD  antiterrorism/force  protection  can be obtained  from  HQDA -AT; 
telephone, DSN 222-9832 or commercial (703) 692 -9832.  
 
(End  of clause)  
 
 
 
252.232 -7007  LIMITATION  OF GOVERNMENT'S  OBLIGATION  (APR  2014)  
 
(a) Contract  line item(s)  * is/are  incrementally  funded.  For this/these  item(s),  the sum of $ ------  *of 
the total price  is presently  available  for payment  and allotted  to this contract.  An allotment  schedule  is set forth  in 
paragraph (j) of this clause.   
 (b) For items(s) identified in paragraph (a) of this clause, the Contractor agrees to perform up to the point at which 
the to tal amount payable by the Government, including reimbursement in the event of termination of those item(s) 
for the  Government's convenience, approximates the total amount  currently allotted to the contract.  The Contractor 
is not authorized  to continue  work  on those  item(s)  beyond  that point.  The Government  will not be obligated  in any 
event to reimburse the Contractor in excess of the amount allotted to the contract for those item(s) regardless of 
anything to the contrary in the clause entitled  "TERMINATION FOR THE CONVENIENCE OF THE 
GOVERNMENT." As used in this clause, the total amount payable by the Government in the event of termination 
of applicable contract line item(s)  for convenience includes costs, profit and estimated termination settle ment costs 
for those item(s).  
 
(c) Notwithstanding the dates specified in the allotment schedule in paragraph (j) of this clause, the Contractor will 
notify the Contracting Officer in writing at least ninety days prior to the date when, in the Contractor's bes t 
judgment,  the work  will reach  the point  at which  the total amount  payable  by the Government,  including  any cost for 
termination for convenience, will approximate 85 percent of the total amount then allotted to the contract for 
performance of the applicable item(s). The notification will state (1) the estimated date when that point will be 
reached  and (2) an estimate  of additional  funding,  if any, needed  to continue  performance  of applicable  line items  up 
to the next scheduled date for allotment of  funds identified in paragraph (j) of this clause, or to a mutually agreed 
upon substitute date. The notification will also advise the Contracting Officer of the estimated amount of additional 
funds that will be required for the timely performance of the i tem(s) funded pursuant to this clause, for subsequent 
period as may be specified in the allotment schedule in paragraph (j) of this clause, or otherwise agreed to by the 
parties. If after such notification additional funds are not allotted by the date iden tified in the Contractor's 
notification, or by an agreed substitute date, the Contracting Officer will terminate any item(s) for which additional 
funds have not been allotted, pursuant to the clause of this contract entitled "TERMINATION FOR THE 
CONVENIENC E OF THE GOVERNMENT".  
 
(d) When  additional  funds  are allotted  for continued  performance  of the contract  line item(s)  identified  in paragraph  
(a) of this clause,  the parties  will agree  as to the period  of contract  performance  which  will be covered  by the funds. The 
provisions of paragraph (b) through (d) of this clause will apply in like manner to the additional allotted funds and 
agreed substitute date, and the contract will be modified accordingly.  
 
(e) If, solely by reason of failure of the Government to allot additional funds, by the dates indicated below, in 
amounts  sufficient for timely performance of the contract line  item(s) identified  in paragraph  (a) of this clause, the 
Contractor  incurs  additional  costs  or is delayed  in the performance  of the work  under  this contract  and if additional 
funds  are allotted,  an equitable  adjustment  will be made  in the price  or prices  (including  appropriate  target,  billing, 
and ceiling prices where applicable) of the item(s), or in the time of delivery, or both. Failure to agree to any such 
equitable adjustment hereunder will be a dispute concerning a question of fact within the meaning of the clause 
entitled "disputes."  
 
(f) The Government  may at any time prior  to termination  allot additional  funds  for the performance  of the contract 
line item(s) identified in paragraph (a) of this clause.  
 
(g) The termination provisions of this clause do not limit the rights of the Government under the clause entitled 
"DEFAULT." The provisions of this clause are limited to work and allotment of funds for the contract line item(s) 
set forth in paragraph (a) of th is clause. This clause no longer applies once the contract if fully funded except with 
regard  to the rights  or obligations  of the parties  concerning  equitable  adjustments  negotiated  under  paragraphs  (d) or 
(e) of this clause.  
 
(h) Nothing  in this clause  affects  the right  of the Government  to this contract  pursuant  to the clause  of this contract 
entitled "TERMINATION FOR CONVENIENCE OF THE GOVERNMENT."  
 
(i) Nothing  in this clause  shall  be construed  as authorization  of voluntary  services  whose  acceptance  is otherwise 
prohibited under 31 U.S.C. 1342.  
 
(j) The parties  contemplate  that the Government  will allot funds  to this contract  in accordance  with the following 
schedule:  
 
On execution  of contract  $--  
 (End  of clause)  
 
 
 
252.234 -7002  EARNED  VALUE  MANAGEMENT  SYSTEM  (MAY  2011)  
 
(a) Definitions.  As used in this clause -- 
 
Acceptable  earned  value  management  system  means  an earned  value  management  system  that generally  complies with 
system criteria in paragraph (b) of this clause.  
 
Earned  value  management  system  means  an earned  value  management  system  that complies  with the earned  value 
management system guidelines in the ANSI/EIA -748. 
 
Significant deficiency means a shortcoming in the system that materially affects the ability of officials of th e 
Department  of Defense  to rely upon  information  produced  by the system  that is needed  for management  purposes.  
 
(b) System  criteria.  In the performance  of this contract,  the Contractor  shall  use-- 
 
(1) An Earned  Value  Management  System  (EVMS)  that complies  with the EVMS  guidelines  in the American 
National  Standards  Institute/Electronic  Industries  Alliance  Standard  748, Earned  Value  Management  Systems 
(ANSI/EIA -748); and  
 
(2) Management procedures that provide for generation of timely, reliable, and verifiable information for the 
Contract  Performance  Report  (CPR)  and the Integrated  Master  Schedule  (IMS)  required  by the CPR  and IMS data 
items of this contract.  
 
(c) If this contract  has a value  of $50 million  or more,  the Contractor  shall  use an EVMS  that has been  determined  to 
be acceptable  by the Cognizant  Federal  Agency  (CFA).  If, at the time of award,  the Contractor's  EVMS  has not been 
determined by the CFA to be in compliance with the EVMS guidelines as stated in paragraph (b)(1) of this clause, 
the Contractor shall apply its current system to the contract and shall take necessary actions to meet the milestones  
in the Contractor's EVMS plan.  
 
(d) If this contract  has a value  of less than $50 million,  the Government  will not make  a formal  determination  that 
the Contractor's EVMS complies with the EVMS guidelines in ANSI/EIA -748 
with respect  to the contract.  The use of the Contractor's  EVMS  for this contract  does not imply  a Government  
determination of the Contractor's compliance with the EVMS guidelines in ANSI/EIA -748 for  
application  to future  contracts.  The Government  will allow  the use of a Contractor's  EVMS  that has been  formally 
reviewed and determined by the CFA to be in compliance with the EVMS guidelines in ANSI/EIA -748. 
 
(e) The Contractor shall submit notification of any proposed substantive changes to the EVMS procedures and the 
impact  of those  changes  to the CFA.  If this contract  has a value  of $50 million  or more,  unless  a waiver  is granted  by 
the CFA, any EVMS changes proposed by the Contractor require approval of the CFA prior to implementation. The 
CFA will advise the Contractor of the acceptability of such changes as soon as practicable (generally within 30 
calendar days) after receipt of the Contractor's notice of proposed changes. If the CFA waives the advance approval 
requirements,  the Contractor  shall  disclose  EVMS  changes  to the CFA  at least 14 calendar  days prior  to the effective 
date of implementation.  
(f) The Government  will schedule  integrated  baseline  reviews  as early  as practicable,  and the review  process  will be 
conducted not later than 180 calendar days after -- 
 
(1) Contract  award;  
 
(2) The exercise  of significant  contract  options;  and 
 
(3) The incorporation  of major  modifications.   
 During  such reviews,  the Government  and the Contractor  will jointly  assess  the Contractor's  baseline  to be used for 
performance measurement to ensure complete coverage of the statement of work, logical scheduling of the work 
activities, adequate resourcing, and identification of inherent risks.  
 
(g) The Contractor  shall  provide  access  to all pertinent  records  and data requested  by the Contracting  Officer  or duly 
authorized representative as necessary to permit Government surveillance to ensure that the EVMS complies, and 
continues to comply, with the performance criteria referenced in paragraph (b) of this clause.  
 
(h) When indicated by contract perfor mance, the Contractor shall submit a request for approval to initiate an over - 
target  baseline  or over-target  schedule  to the Contracting  Officer.  The request  shall  include  a top-level  projection  of 
cost and/or schedule growth, a determination of whether o r not performance variances will be retained, and a 
schedule of implementation for the rebaselining. The Government will acknowledge receipt of the request in a 
timely manner (generally within 30 calendar days).  
 
(i) Significant  deficiencies.  
 
(1) The Contracting  Officer  will provide  an initial  determination  to the contractor,  in writing,  on any significant 
deficiencies.  The initial  determination  will describe  the deficiency  in sufficient  detail  to allow  the Contractor  to 
understand the deficiency.  
 
(2) The Contractor  shall  respond  within  30 days to a written  initial  determination  from  the Contracting  Officer  that 
identifies significant deficiencies in the Contractor's EVMS. If the Contractor disagrees with the initial 
determination, the Cont ractor shall state, in writing, its rationale for disagreeing.  
 
(3) The Contracting  Officer  will evaluate  the Contractor's  response  and notify  the Contractor,  in writing,  of the 
Contracting Officer's final determination concerning -- 
 
(i) Remaining  significant  deficiencies;  
 
(ii) The adequacy  of any proposed  or completed  corrective  action;  
 
(iii) System  noncompliance,  when  the Contractor's  existing  EVMS  fails to comply  with the earned  value 
management system guidelines in the ANSI/EIA -748; and  
 
(iv) System  disapproval,  if initial  EVMS  validation  is not successfully  completed  within  the timeframe  approved  by 
the Contracting Officer, or if the Contracting Officer determines that the Contractor's earned value management 
system  contains  one or more  significant  deficiencies  in high-risk guidelines  in ANSI/EIA -748 standards  (guidelines 
1, 3, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 16, 21, 23, 26, 27, 28, 30, or 32). When the Contracting Officer determines that the existing 
earned value management system contains one or mo re 
significant  deficiencies  in one or more  of the remaining  16 guidelines  in ANSI/EIA -748 standards,  the contracting 
officer will use discretion to disapprove the system based on input received from functional specialists and the auditor.  
 
(4) If the Contractor  receives  the Contracting  Officer's  final determination  of significant  deficiencies,  the Contractor 
shall, within 45 days of receipt of the final determination, either correct the significant deficiencies or submit an 
acceptable corrective action plan showing milestones and actions to eliminate the  
significant  deficiencies.  
 
(j) Withholding payments. If the Contracting Officer makes a final determination to disapprove the Contractor's 
EVMS,  and the contract  includes  the clause  at 252.242 -7005,  Contractor  Business  Systems,  the Contracting  Officer 
will withhold payments in accordance with that clause.  
 
(k) With  the exception  of paragraphs  (i) and (j) of this clause,  the Contractor  shall  require  its subcontractors  to 
comply with EVMS requirements as follows:   
 (1) For subcontracts  valued  at $50 million  or more,  the following  subcontractors  shall  comply  with the requirements 
of this clause:  
 
Major  subcontractors  as listed  in Attachment  06 of the contract  
 
(2) For subcontracts  valued  at less than $50 million,  the following  subcontractors  shall  comply  with the 
requirements of this clause, excluding the requirements of paragraph (c) of this clause:  
 
Major  subcontractors  as listed  in Attachment  06 of the contract  
 
(End  of clause)  
 
 
252.235 -7010  Acknowledgment  of Support  and Disclaimer.  (MAY  1995)  
 
(a) The Contractor shall include an acknowledgment of the Government's support in the publication of any material 
based  on or developed  under  this contract,  stated  in the following  terms:  This material  is based  upon  work  supported 
by the to be determined at the task order level when applicable under Contract No. W9113M -16-D-0003 . 
(b) All material, except scientific articles or papers published in scientific journals, must, in addition to any notices 
or disclaimers by the Contractor, also conta in the following disclaimer: Any opinions, findings and conclusions or 
recommendations  expressed  in this material  are those  of the author(s)  and do not necessarily  reflect  the views  of the 
Army Contracting Command - Redstone . 
 
(End  of clause)  
 
 
 
252.237 -7023  CONTINUATION  OF ESSENTIAL  CONTRACTOR  SERVICES  (OCT  2010)  
 
(a) Definitions.  As used in this clause - 
 
(1) Essential contractor service means a service provided by a  firm or individual  under contract to DoD to support 
mission -essential  functions,  such as support  of vital systems,  including  ships  owned,  leased,  or operated  in support 
of military missions or roles at sea; associated support activities, including installation,  
garrison, and base support services; and similar services provided to foreign military sales customers under the 
Security Assistance Program. Services are essential if the effectiveness of defense systems or operations has the 
potential  to be seriously  impaired  by the interruption  of these  services,  as determined  by the appropriate  functional 
commander or civilian equivalent.  
 
(2) Mission -essential  functions  means  those  organizational  activities  that must  be performed  under  all circumstances 
to achieve DoD component missions or responsibilities, as determined by the appropriate functional commander or 
civilian equivalent. Failure to perform or sustain these functions would significantly affect DoD's ability to provide 
vital services or exercise authority, direction, and control.  
 
(b) The Government has identified all or a portion of the contractor services performed under this contract as 
essential  contractor  services  in support  of mission -essential  functions.  These  services  are listed  in attachment  -*-, 
Mission -Essential Contractor Services, dated -* ---- --. 
* *To be completed  at the task order  level,  when  applicable.  
(c)(1)  The Mission -Essential  Contractor  Services  Plan submitted  by the Contractor,  is incorporated  in this contract.  
 
(2) The Contractor  shall  maintain  and update  its plan as necessary.  The Contractor  shall  provide  all plan updates  to the 
Contracting Officer for approval.  
 
(3) As directed  by the Contracting  Officer,  the Contractor  shall  participate  in training  events,  exercises,  and drills 
associated  with Government  efforts  to test the effectiveness  of continuity  of operations  procedures  and practices.   
 (d)(1) Notwithstanding any other clause of this contract, the Contractor shall be responsible to perform those services  
identified  as essential  contractor  services  during  crisis  situations  (as directed  by the Contracting  Officer),  in accordance 
with its Mission -Essential Contractor Services Plan.  
 
(2) In the event the Contractor anticipates not being able to perform any of the essential contractor services identified  
in accordance  with paragraph  (b) of this clause  during  a crisis  situation,  the Contractor  shall  notify  the Contracting 
Officer or other designated representative as expeditiously as possible and use  
its best efforts  to cooperate  with the Government  in the Government's  efforts  to maintain  the continuity  of operations.  
 
(e) The Government  reserves  the right  in such crisis  situations  to use Federal  employees,  military  personnel,  or 
contract support from other contractors, or to enter into new contracts for essential contractor services.  
 
(f) Changes. The Contractor shall segregate and separately identify all costs incurred in continuing performance of 
essential ser vices in a crisis situation. The Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer of an increase or decrease 
in costs within ninety days after continued performance has been directed by the Contracting Officer, or within any 
additional period that the Contr acting Officer approves in  writing, but not later than the date of final payment under 
the contract.  The Contractor's  notice  shall  include  the Contractor's  proposal  for an equitable  adjustment  and any data 
supporting the increase or decrease in the form prescribed by the Contracting Officer. The parties shall negotiate an 
equitable price adjustment to the contract price, delivery schedule, or both as soon as is practicable after receipt of 
the Contractor's proposal.  
 
(g) The Contractor  shall  include  the substance  of this clause,  including  this paragraph  (g), in subcontracts  for the 
essential services.  
 
(End  of clause)  
 
 
252.239 -7016  TELECOMMUNICATIONS  SECURITY  EQUIPMENT,  DEVICES,  TECHNIQUES,  AND 
SERVICES (DEC 1991)  
 
(a) Definitions.  As used in this clause -- 
 
(1) "Securing"  means  the application  of Government -approved  telecommunications  security  equipment,  devices, 
techniques, or services to contractor telecommunications systems.  
 
(2) "Sensitive information" means any information the loss, misuse, or mod ification of which, or unauthorized 
access to, could adversely affect the national interest or the conduct of Federal programs, or the privacy to which 
individuals  are entitled  under  5 U.S.C.  552a  (the Privacy  Act),  but which  has not been  specifically  authorized  under 
criteria established by an Executive Order or Act of Congress to be kept secret in the interest of national defense or 
foreign policy.  
 
(3) "Telecommunications systems" means voice, record, and data communications, including management 
information  systems  and local  data networks  that connect  to external  transmission  media,  when  employed  by 
Government agencies, contractors, and subcontractors to transmit -- 
 
(i) Classified  or sensitive  information;  
(ii) Matters  involving  intelligence  activities,  cryptologic  activities  related  to national  security,  the command  and 
control of military forces, or equipment that is an integral part of a weapon or weapons system; or  
 
(iii) Matters  critical  to the direct  fulfillment  of military  or intelligence  missions.  
 
(b) This solicitation/contract identifies classified or sensitive information that requires securing during 
telecommunications  and requires  the Contractor  to secure  telecommunications  systems.  The Contractor  agrees  to 
secure  information and systems at the following location: *   
 (c) To provide  the security,  the Contractor  shall  use Government - approved  telecommunications  equipment,  devices, 
techniques, or services. A list of the approved equipment, etc. may be obtained from *. Equipment, devices, 
techniques, or services used by the Contractor must be compatible or interoperable with *.  
 
(d) Except as may be provided elsewhere in this contract, the Contractor shall furnish all telecommunications 
security equipment, d evices, techniques, or services necessary to perform this contract. The Contractor must meet 
ownership  eligibility  conditions  for communications  security  equipment  designated  as controlled  crytographic  items.  
 
(e) The Contractor  agrees  to include  this clause,  including  this paragraph  (e), in all subcontracts  which  require 
securing telecommunications.  
*To be completed  at the task order  level  when  applicable  
 
(End  of clause)  
 
 
 
252.251 -7000  ORDERING  FROM  GOVERNMENT  SUPPLY  SOURCES  (AUG  2012)  
 
(a) When placing orders under Federal Supply Schedules, Personal Property Rehabilitation Price Schedules, or 
Enterprise  Software  Agreements,  the Contractor  shall  follow  the terms  of the applicable  schedule  or agreement  and 
authorization. Include in each order:  
 
(1) A copy  of the authorization  (unless  a copy  was previously  furnished  to the Federal  Supply  Schedule,  Personal 
Property Rehabilitation Price Schedule, or Enterprise Software Agreement contractor).  
 
(2) The following  statement:  Any price  reductions  negotiated  as part of an Enterprise  Software  Agreement  issued 
under a Federal Supply Schedule contract shall control. In the event of any other inconsistencies between an 
Enterprise Software Agreement, established as a Federal Supply Schedule blanket purchase agreement, and the  
Federal Supply Schedule contract, the latter shall govern.  
 
(3) The completed  address(es)  to which  the Contractor's  mail,  freight,  and billing  documents  are to be directed.  
 
(b) When  placing  orders  under  nonmandatory  schedule  contracts  and requirements  contracts,  issued  by the General 
Services Administration (GSA) Office of Information Resources Management, for automated data processing 
equipment, software and maintenance, communications equipment and supplies, and teleprocessing services, t he 
Contractor shall follow the terms of the applicable contract and the procedures in paragraph (a) of this clause.  
 
(c) When  placing  orders  for Government  stock  on a reimbursable  basis,  the Contractor  shall -- 
 
(1) Comply  with the requirements  of the Contracting  Officer's  authorization,  using  FEDSTRIP  or MILSTRIP 
procedures, as appropriate;  
 
(2) Use only the GSA  Form  1948 -A, Retail  Services  Shopping  Plate,  when  ordering  from  GSA  Self-Service  Stores;  
 
(3) Order  only those  items  required  in the performance  of Government  contracts;  and 
 
(4) Pay invoices from Government supply sources promptly. For purchases made from DoD supply sources, this 
means within 30 days of the date of a proper invoice (see also Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplemen t 
(DFARS)  251.105).  For purchases  made  from  DoD  supply  sources,  this means  within  30 days of the date of a proper 
invoice. The Contractor shall annotate  each invoice with the date of receipt. The  Contractor's  failure to pay may also 
result in the DoD supply source refusing to honor the requisition (see DFARS 251.102(f)) or in the Contracting 
Officer terminating the Contractor's authorization to use DoD supply sources. In the event the Contracting Officer 
decides to terminate the authorization due to th e Contractor's failure to pay in a timely manner, the Contracting 
Officer shall provide the Contractor with prompt written notice of the intent to terminate the authorization and the 
basis for such action. The  Contractor shall have 10 days  after receipt of  the Government's notice in which to provide   
 
 
 
 
 
 98 
 
 
 
 additional  information  as to why the authorization  should  not be terminated.  The termination  shall  not 
provide  the Contractor  with an excusable  delay  for failure  to perform  or complete  the contract  in accordance  
with the terms  of the contract, and the Contractor shall be solely responsible for any increased costs.  
 
(d) When  placing  orders  for Government  stock  on a non-reimbursable  basis,  the Contractor  shall— 
 
(1) Comply  with the requirements  of the Contracting  Officer's  authorization;  and 
 
(2) When using electronic transactions to submit requisitions on a non -reimbursable basis only, place 
orders by authorizing contract number using the Defense Logistics Management System (DLMS) 
Supplement to Federal Implementation  Convention  511R,  Requisition;  and acknowledge  receipts  by 
authorizing  contract  number  using  the DLMS Supplement 527R, Receipt, Inquiry, Response and 
Material Receipt Acknowledgement.  
 
(e) Only  the Contractor  may request  authorization  for subcontractor  use of Government  supply  
sources.  The Contracting Officer will not grant authorizations for subcontractor use without 
approval of the Contractor.  
 
(f) Government  invoices  shall  be submitted  to the Contractor's  billing  address,  and Contractor  
payments  shall  be sent to the Government remittance address specified below:  
 
Contractor's  Billing  Address  To be completed  at the task order  level  when  applicable : Government  
Remittance Address To be completed at the task order level when applicable. : 
 
(End  of clause)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 99 
 
 
 
 APPENDIX A  
 
MANDATORY TRAINING FOR CONTRACTOR EMPLOYEES  
 
1. The table below provides a current list of mandatory training requirements applicable to contractor 
employees (prime contractor and subcontractor) that provide unescorted access support in USASMDC, ACC and 
JFCC IMD (or other Government) facilities, have access to Army networks, or access to developmental or 
operational information relating to Army current or future capabilities. (Contr actor employees who provide 
temporary, intermit facility support [for example, electrician, plumbing, and HVAC specialists] are not required to 
complete mandatory training requirements). Note that other mandatory training requirements may arise via 
mandate s such as operational orders, policies, regulations, etc., that contractor employees shall complete without the 
need for modification to the table below.  
 
2. The prime contractor (or subcontractor as applicable) will maintain all training certifications. M andatory 
training will be tracked by the prime contractor and reported as a percent completed in a quarterly report via an 
appropriate CDRL or other mechanism directed by the cognizant COR. If requested by a COR, the prime contractor 
will provide the date a contractor employee completed a training requirement.  
 
Requirement  Location  of Training  
Derivative  Classification  and Markings  - 
https://jkosupport.jten.mil/html/COI.xhtml?course_prefi 
x=JS&course_number= -US066   
Joint  Knowledge  Online  course  
Foreign  Disclosure  - Course  Number  J30P -US1391  
- 
https://jkosupport.jten.mil/html/COI.xhtml?course_prefi 
x=J3O&course_number=P -US1391   
 
Joint  Knowledge  Online  course  
Information  Security  Refresher  Training  - 
https:// www.lms.army.mil/  Mandatory  training  tab in Army  Learning 
Management System  
Antiterrorism  Training  (AT Level  1) 
https://jkosupport.jten.mil/html/COI.xhtml?course_prefi 
x=JS&course_number= -US007  Joint  Knowledge  Online  course  
Operations  Security  (OPSEC)  - 
https:// www.lms.army.mil/  Mandatory  training  tab in Army  Learning 
Management System  
Threat  Awareness  & Reporting  Program  (TARP)  - 
https:// www.lms.army.mil/  Mandatory  training  tab in Army  Learning 
Management System  
Fire Extinguisher  – Electrical  Safety  – PDF 
provided  Review  PDF provided;  take a screen  shot of last 
page for evidence of completion and submit to 
contractor supervisor or representative as  
directed  
Controlled  Unclassified  Information  - 
https://securityhub.usalearning.gov/index.html  or 
https:// www.dodcui.mil/Home/Training/  Security  Awareness  Hub or DoD CUI Program  
 
Access to the Army Learning Management System (ALMS) website with CAC or username and password is 
available at https://www.lms.army.mil/  Access to the Joint Knowledge Online (JKO) w ebsite with CAC or username 
and password is available at https://jkosupport.jten.mil/  
 
 
 